Which NFL team represented the AFC at Super Bowl 50?
Denver Broncos
Which Carolina Panthers player was named Most Valuable Player?
Cam Newton
Who was the Super Bowl 50 MVP?
Von Miller
Which network broadcasted Super Bowl 50 in the U.S.?
CBS
Who was the NFL Commissioner in early 2012?
Roger Goodell
Which Louisiana venue was one of three considered for Super Bowl 50?
New Orleans' Mercedes-Benz Superdome
When were the two finalists for hosting Super Bowl 50 announced?
October 16, 2012
When was Levi's Stadium awarded the right to host Super Bowl 50?
May 21, 2013
Who coached each Super Bowl 50 participant in their most recent Super Bowl appearance prior to Super Bowl 50?
John Fox
Whic Carolina Panthers running back was waived?
DeAngelo Williams
How many Pro Bowlers were on the Panthers offense?
six
How many points did the Panthers defense surrender?
308
Who is the head coach of the Broncos?
Gary Kubiak
What was Peyton Manning's passer rating for the season?
67.9
How many yards did the Broncos' defense give up?
4,530
Who lost to the Panthers in the divisional round of the playoffs?
Seattle Seahawks
Who lost to the Broncos in the divisional round?
Pittsburgh Steelers
What Carolina player was injured in the NFC Championship Game?
Thomas Davis
How old was Peyton Manning when he played in Super Bowl 50?
39
When was Manning picked #1 in the NFL Draft?
1998
In what Super Bowl did Rivera play?
Super Bowl XX
Who slipped on the Levi's Stadium turf in week 6 of the 2015 NFL season?
Justin Tucker
Who was designated as the home team in the Super Bowl?
Broncos
At what university's facility did the Panthers practice?
San Jose State
When did the NFL announce the suspension of using Roman numerals to brand the Super Bowl?
June 4, 2014
What color was featured in promotions related to Super Bowl 50?
gold
In what venue did the NFL Experience take place?
Moscone Center
At what university is Bellomy Field located?
Santa Clara University
On what day was Super Bowl Opening Night held?
Monday
What is the name of the program that provides contracting work to local companies?
Business Connect
What percentage of money raised by the Host Committee will be used for charitable causes?
25
Who is the trophy given to the Super Bowl champion named for?
Vince Lombardi
On what television station could an American viewer watch the game?
CBS
Which network broadcast the game in Spanish?
ESPN Deportes
What service did Verizon customers need to use to stream the game on their smartphones?
NFL Mobile
What talk show followed immediately after Super Bowl 50 on CBS?
The Late Show with Stephen Colbert
What was the base rate for a 30-second ad during Super Bowl 50?
$5,000,000
What was the name of the contest sponsored by QuickBooks?
"Small Business Big Game"
What Universal trailer debuted during the Super Bowl?
Jason Bourne
What radio network carried the Super Bowl?
Westwood One
What radio station is located at 103.5FM on the dial in Denver?
KRFX
What BBC radio station will carry the game in the United Kingdom?
BBC Radio 5
Who was the Most Valuable Player of Super Bowl II?
Bart Starr
How many Grammys has Lady Gaga won?
Six
On what date did the NFL announce that Coldplay would headline the halftime show?
December 3
What team received the opening kickoff?
Denver
Which former referee served as an analyst for CBS?
Mike Carey
Who ran for a Carolina touchdown to make the score 10–7?
Jonathan Stewart
Who tackled Mike Tolbert and caused a fumble?
Darian Stewart
Who was on the receiving end of a 45-yard pass from Cam Newton?
Ted Ginn Jr.
Who recovered a Manning fumble?
Ealy
On what yard line did Carolina begin with 4:51 left in the game?
24
How many solo sacks did Von Miller have in the game?
five
How many total yards did Denver gain?
194
What was Maria Curie the first female recipient of?
Nobel Prize
Over how many species of trees can be found in the Saxon Garden?
100
How far from Warsaw does the Vistula river's environment change noticeably? 
15 kilometres
What was Warsaw the most diverse of in Poland?
city
What is the second academic school of technology in Poland?
Warsaw University of Technology
When was the University Library founded?
1816
What suffered considerably for Warsaw when it had an Eastern Bloc economy?
infrastructure
Where are some of the best medical facilities in East-Central Europe located?
Warsaw
What type of venue is the Teatr Wielki?
musical
What is the Saxon Garden in Polish?
Ogród Saski
What is the polish word for wreaths?
Wianki
What does the world's first Museum of Posters have one of the largest collections of in the world?
art posters
Where can a tribute to the fall of Warsaw be found?
Warsaw Uprising Museum
What castle currently houses the Centre for Contemporary Art?
Royal Ujazdów Castle
Who won the Ekstraklasa Championship in 2000?
Polonia Warsaw
What is polish for "mermaid"?
syrenka
What did Artur Oppman give to the world?
legend
Where was the famous artist Tamara de Lempicka born?
Warsaw
Who ranked Warsaw as the 32nd most liveable city in the world?
Economist Intelligence Unit
When is the first reference in history to Warsaw?
1313
What archdiocese is Warsaw the seat of?
Roman Catholic
What is Warsaw's name in the Polish language?
Warszawa
What city, raided by clans and dukes, preceded the founding of Warszowa?
Jazdów
Who did Warsaw serve as the seat for in 1529?
General Sejm
How long was Warsaw the capital of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth?
until 1796
How long was Warsaw occupied by Germany?
from 4 August 1915 until November 1918
When did Germany invade Poland and in doing so start World War II?
September 1939
What army was pushing deep into Polish territory to pursue the Germans in 1944?
the Red Army
What campaign did the Communist regime initiate after WWII?
"Bricks for Warsaw"
What pope as a native of Poland?
John Paul II
How many kilometers is Warsaw from the Carpathian Mountains?
about 300
How many geomorphologic formations is Warsaw on?
two
What plateau has groups of clay pits?
moraine
What does Warsaw's mixture of architectural styles reflect?
turbulent history of the city
What type of architecture is represented in the majestic churches?
Gothic
When did building activity in the palaces and churches take place in the later decades of?
17th century
The Kronenberg Palace had been an exceptional example of what type of architecture?
bourgeois
What commemorates Warsaw's heroic history?
many places
What type of space in Warsaw are the Botanic Garden and University Library garden?
green
Why is Warsaw's flora very rich in species?
location of Warsaw
How many people lived in Warsaw in 1939?
1,300,000
What type of city has Warsaw been for as long as it's been a city?
multi-cultural
What is the basic unit of territorial division in Poland?
a commune
Who in Warsaw has the power of legislative action?
Warsaw City Council
What is the mayor of Warsaw called?
President
What is the city centre of Warsaw called in Polish?
Śródmieście
When was Warsaw's first stock exchange established?
1817
When was the FSO Car Factory founded?
1951
What is Warsaw known as in Polish?
Warszawa
In what country is Normandy located?
France
Who was the duke in the battle of Hastings?
William the Conqueror
What is the original meaning of the word Norman?
Viking
When was the Duchy of Normandy founded?
911
Who upon arriving gave the original viking settlers a common identity?
Rollo
What was the Norman religion?
Catholicism
What was one of the Norman's major exports?
fighting horsemen
When did the attack occur in which the Normans impressed Prince Guaimar III occur?
999
What was the name of the leader ennobled by Henry III
Drogo
Who controlled Sicily before the Normans?
Saracens
What is another name for the Tabula Rogeriana?
Kitab Rudjdjar
Who was the Normans' main enemy in Italy, the Byzantine Empire and Armenia?
Seljuk Turks
When did Herve serve as a Byzantine general?
1050s
What was the name of the Norman castle?
Afranji
What were the origins of the Raouliii family?
Norman mercenary
What was the name of the count of Apulia 
Robert Guiscard
Where did the Normans and Byzantines sign the peace treaty?
Deabolis
When did the Normans attack Dyrrachium?
1185
Who did Emma Marry?
King Ethelred II
Who was Edward the Confessor's half-brother?
Harthacnut
Where did Harold II die?
Battle of Hastings
What was the Anglo-Norman language's final form?
Modern English
In what year did the Norman's invade at Bannow Bay?
1169
Who was Margaret's brother?
Edgar
Who did Alexander I marry?
Sybilla of Normandy
Where was Ralph earl of?
Hereford
What country was under the control of Norman barons?
Wales
What year did Roger de Tosny fail to accomplish what he set out to do?
1018
When did the Siege of Antioch take place?
1097
How long did Western Europe control Cyprus?
380 years
What ruined Richard's plans to reach Acre?
a storm
Who was Guy's Rival?
Conrad of Montferrat
Who did Berengaria of Navarre marry?
Richard the Lion-Heart
When did the Venetians take total control of Cyprus?
1489
What continent are the Canarian Islands off the coast of?
Africa
Who became the King of the Canary Islands?
Bethencourt
Where are Jersey and Guernsey
Channel Islands
What is the Norman architecture idiom?
Romanesque
What architecture type came after Norman in England?
Early Gothic
When did the church reform begin?
early 11th century
When were the French wars of religion?
16th century
What kind of needlework was used in the creation of the Bayeux Tapestry?
embroidery
What is the most important type of Norman art preserved in churches?
mosaics
In what century did important classical music developments occur in Normandy?
11th
Where did the monks flee to?
southern Italy
In what year was Nikola Tesla born? 
1856
In what year did Nikola Tesla emigrate to the United States?
1884
When did Tesla discover the possibility of wireless connectivity?
1893
What year did Tesla die? 
1943
What modern-day country was Tesla born in?
Croatia
How many siblings did Tesla have?
four
Who was Tesla influenced by while in school?
Martin Sekulić
What disease did Tesla contract in 1873?
cholera
Where did Tesla run to avoid the army draft?
Tomingaj
What year did Tesla enroll at an engineering school?
1875
What did Tesla do in December 1878?
left Graz
Why was Tesla returned to Gospic?
not having a residence permit
What city did Tesla move to in 1880?
Prague
Where did Tesla move in 1881?
Budapest
When did Tesla begin working for the Continental Edison Company?
1882
How much did Edison offer Tesla to redesign a motor and generators?
fifty thousand dollars
Who did Tesla partner with in 1886?
Robert Lane and Benjamin Vail
What did Tesla's investors do to him?
forced Tesla out
Who was Alfred S brown?
a Western Union superintendent
What did Tesla develop in 1887?
an induction motor
Who was Thomas Commerford Martin?
editor of Electrical World magazine
In what year were Tesla's motor and transformer designs licensed to Westinghouse?
1888
Where did Tesla work in 1888?
Pittsburgh
Who was the War of Currents waged between? 
Thomas Edison and George Westinghouse
In 1893, who won the bid to light the World's Columbian Exposition?
George Westinghouse
Who headed the Niagara Falls Cataract Construction Company in 1893?
Richard Dean Adams
When was a patent-sharing agreement signed between Westinghouse Electric and General Electric?
1896
How old was tesla when he became a US citizen?
35
What organization did Tesla serve as vice president of? 
American Institute of Electrical Engineers
Why did Tesla begin investigating invisible energy?
he had noticed damaged film in his laboratory in previous experiments
What did Tesla begin to research in March 1896?
X-ray imaging
What did tesla incorrectly believe about x-rays?
X-rays were longitudinal waves
Which engineer made the induction motor more efficient?
Benjamin Lamme
What was Tesla's device called?
Egg of Columbus
When did the Herald Tribune publish its Tesla article?
1934
What association did Tesla demonstrate his radio wave theories to?
National Electric Light Association
When did Tesla give a demonstration of his remote control boat?
1898
When did Tesla attain his electrical transmitter patent?
1900
In what year did Tesla go to Colorado Springs?
1899
What kind of electricity was Tesla investigating?
atmospheric
What natural phenomenon did Tesla create artificially? 
lightning
What did Tesla accidentally cause?
power outage
To what did Tesla attribute the unknown signals his radio received?
communications from another planet
How much money did John Jacob Astor IV provide Tesla with?
$100,000
When did Tesla depart from Colorado Springs?
1900
What did Tesla establish following his Colorado experiments?
Wardenclyffe
Who did Tesla try to get money from?
Morgan
How much correspondence did Tesla send Morgan in the five years following 1901?
over 50 letters
How many horsepower did Tesla's bladeless turbine have?
200
How was Tesla's mechanical oscillator powered?
steam
What did Tesla think could improve the brain's intelligence?
application of electricity
Where did Tesla look for investors prior to WWI?
overseas
In what magazine did Tesla talk about reflecting electricity off of submarine's hulls?
Electrical Experimenter
Who did Reuters claim won the 1915 Nobel prize in Physics?
Thomas Edison and Nikola Tesla
What was another possible reason that Tesla and Edison did not get the award?.
animosity toward each other
How many possible bids for the prize were there in 1915?
38
What was the patent number for Tesla's final patent?
U.S. Patent 1,655,114
What was Tesla's salary from Westinghouse in 1934?
$125 per month
What did Tesla claim to be able to transmit?
mechanical energy
What was Tesla on his way to do when he was struck by the cab?
feed the pigeons
What kind of weapon did Tesla talk about?
"teleforce" weapon
When did Tesla claim to have built the weapon?
1937
What kind of weapons did Tesla's treatise concern?
charged particle beam weapons
What was Tesla afraid someone was trying to do with his invention?
steal the invention
How old was Tesla when he died?
86
What happened to Tesla's belongings?
FBI ordered the Alien Property Custodian to seize Tesla's belongings
Who gave Tesla's eulogy? 
New York City mayor Fiorello La Guardia
Where was Tesla's property sent?
Belgrade
What was the total number of patents that Tesla had?
around 300
At what time did Tesla get dinner?
8:10 p.m
What was the daily distance walked by Tesla?
between 8 to 10 miles per day
What did Tesla tell Brisbane he didn't believe in?
telepathy
What animals did Tesla care for?
pigeons
How much did Tesla weigh?
142 pounds
How many languages did Tesla know?
eight
How long would Tesla spend gambling sometimes?
more than 48 hours
What characteristic did Tesla say helped his scientific abilities?
chastity
Who was Tesla's secretary? 
Dorothy Skerrit
What famous writer was Tesla's good friend?
Mark Twain
Who was Tesla prejudiced against?
overweight people
What subatomic particle did Tesla deny the existence of?
electron
Whose theory did Tesla disagree with?
Einstein's
What "dynamic theory" did Tesla say he finished in 1937?
gravity
What idea was Tesla a fan of?
eugenics
Who did Tesla think would run the world of the future?
women
The issues of what era did Tesla's article talk about?
post-World War I
What religion did Tesla grow up in?
Orthodox Christian
What article was published in 1937?
"A Machine to End War"
What did Tesla write?
books and articles
Where can a lot Tesla's writings be found?
the web
What kind of fiction is Tesla's work featured in?
science fiction
On which magazine's cover did Tesla appear in 1931
Time magazine
What branch of theoretical computer science deals with broadly classifying computational problems by difficulty and class of relationship?
Computational complexity theory
What measure of a computational problem broadly defines the inherent difficulty of the solution?
if its solution requires significant resources
What two fields of theoretical computer science closely mirror computational complexity theory?
analysis of algorithms and computability theory
What is the name given to the input string of a computational problem?
problem instance
By how many kilometers does the traveling salesman problem seek to classify a route between the 15 largest cities in Germany?
2000
In a computational problem, what can be described as a string over an alphabet?
problem instance
What kind of problems are one of the main topics studied in computational complexity theory?
Decision problems
What kind of graph is an example of an input used in a decision problem?
arbitrary graph
A function problem is an example of what?
a computational problem
How can function problems typically be restated?
decision problems
What is a commonly used measurement used to determine the complexity of a computational problem?
how much time the best algorithm requires to solve the problem
Whose thesis states that the solution to a problem is solvable with reasonable resources assuming it allows for a polynomial time algorithm?
Cobham's thesis
What is the term for a mathematical model that theoretically represents a general computing machine?
A Turing machine
What is generally considered to be the most basic iteration of a Turing machine?
A deterministic Turing machine
Turing machines are commonly employed to define what? 
complexity classes
What is an example of a machine model that deviates from a generally accepted multi-tape Turing machine?
random access machines
What type of Turing machine can be characterized by checking multiple possibilities at the same time?
non-deterministic
The time required to output an answer on a deterministic Turing machine is expressed as what?
state transitions
Time and space are both examples of what type of resource?
complexity resources
What are the three primary expressions used to represent case complexity?
best, worst and average
What provides a solution to a list of integers provided as input that ned to be sorted?
deterministic sorting algorithm quicksort
Classification of resources is contingent on determining the upper and lower bounds of minimum time required by what?  
the most efficient algorithm
What expression is generally used to convey upper or lower bounds?
big O notation
What has complicated definitions that prevent classification into a framework?
complexity classes
Concrete bounding of computation time frequently produces complexity classes contingent upon what?
chosen machine model
What are two examples of measurements are bound within algorithms to establish complexity classes?
time or space
What are three examples of complexity classes associated with definitions established by probabilistic Turing machines?
BPP, ZPP and RP
What is an example of a measurement within a complexity class that would create a bigger set of problems if the bounds were relaxed?
computation time
What is the foundation for separation results within complexity classes?
time and space hierarchy theorems
What concept is frequently used to define complexity classes?
reduction
What is the most frequently employed type of reduction?
polynomial-time reduction
The complexity of problems often depends on what?
the type of reduction being used
The hardest problems in NP can be analogously written as what class of problems?
NP-complete
What complexity class is characterized by a computational tasks and efficient algorithms?
P
If P is ultimately proven to be equal tot NP, what effect would this have on the efficiency of problems?
more efficient solutions
Who demonstrated that P= NP implies problems not present in P or NP-complete?
Ladner
What is the problem attributed to defining if two finite graphs are isomorphic?
The graph isomorphism problem
What computational problem is commonly associated with prime factorization?
The integer factorization problem
What is the unproven assumption generally ascribed to the value of complexity classes?
suspected to be unequal
In what complexity class do complement problems of NP problems exist?
co-NP
What variable is associated with all problems solved within logarithmic space?
L
Problems capable of theoretical solutions but consuming unreasonable time in practical application are known as what?
intractable problems
What eponymous variation of arithmetic presents a decision problem not evidenced in P?
Presburger arithmetic
What tactic did researchers employ to offset the former deficit of work surrounding the complexity of algorithmic problems?
foundations were laid out
What paper is commonly considered the bellwether ushering in systematic studies computational complexity?
On the Computational Complexity of Algorithms
Who provided a definition of linear bounded automata in 1960?
John Myhill
What is the concrete choice typically assumed by most complexity-theoretic theorems?
input encoding
Who is responsible for axiomatic complexity theory?
Manuel Blum
What is a course of study called?
the curriculum.
What factor may make a teacher's role vary?
cultures
Who is most likely to teach a child at home?
family member
What is another general name for a religious teacher?
spiritual
What is another name for teaching within the family?
homeschooling
What could a teacher help in organizing?
school functions
What do government's run that affects teachers?
teacher's colleges
Who could be the subjects of a teacher's college investigation?
members
Where might a teacher teach that is not inside a building?
outdoors
What is another way of learning that is not formal?
informal
What objective would be labeled as practical?
skill
What would a teacher assess the levels of a student on?
particular skills
What's the biggest difference in the teaching relationship for primary and secondary school?
the relationship between teachers and children
What type of approaches for primary school are available that are different than the norm?
alternative
What is a new trend in teaching?
Co-teaching
What was the usual type of school discipline?
corporal punishment
How common was the form of corporal punishment in the past?
one of the most common
How many US states do no practice corporal punishment?
30
What is a common practice in official corporal punishment?
caning
What is a common punishment in Singapore?
detention
What type of teacher is required in the Western Europe model of discipline?
assertive
Who wants a more confrontational type of discipline?
some teachers and parents
What country has higher scores on standardized tests than the U.S.?
Japan
What class sizes can make keeping order difficult?
40 to 50 students
What type of authority do Sudbury schools prefer?
popularly based authority
What must a teacher show towards the course materials for increase learning?
enthusiasm
What increases student's motivation to learn?
teacher enthusiasm
Enthusiastic teachers may cause students to become more ____ about their learning process?
self-determined
What is student motivation about school linked to?
student-teacher relationships
Students show more interest in classes taught by what type of teachers?
friendly and supportive
What is the second aspect of teacher enthusiasm?
enthusiasm about the students
What is the largest type of misconduct being reviewed by the media?
sexual misconduct
Where was it shown to have a 0.3% prevalence of sexual abuse by professionals?
England
Where has there been very well-known cases of teacher misconduct?
United States
Why have some men avoided becoming teachers?
Fears of being labelled a pedophile or hebephile
What can hurt a teacher's mental and physical health?
occupational stress
How many teachers were found to have felt occupational stress in a 2000 study?
42%
How many ways are available to help reduce the stress of teaching?
several
Where are nearly all teachers taught?
a university or college
Who is responsible for education in the country of Australia?
the individual states and territories
What is the minimum required if you want to teach in Canada?
a post-secondary degree Bachelor's Degree
What are teachers considered to be in Germany?
civil servants
What does teaching on an island result in?
Extra pay
With whom are teachers required to register?
the Teaching Council
When was vetting introduced?
2006
In 2007, what was the high end of the salary range?
41,004
What do counties sometimes offer to get more teachers?
alternative licensing programs
With whom must someone who wants to teach register?
the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS)
What is the start of the salary year?
April 2008
What area differs from other areas in the United Kingdom regarding education?
Wales
What group can teachers in Wales register with?
trade unions
In the US, who decides on the requirements for teachers?
each state
In general, what were teachers paid in the past?
relatively low salaries
How many types of religious or spiritual teachers are there in Christianity?
many
What is an abbreviation for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints?
LDS Church
What is the name of the spiritual teacher in Hinduism?
guru
What is the name of a teacher in Tibetan Buddhism?
a Lama
Who teaches the proper way of living in Islam?
ulemas
Of what nationality was Martin Luther?
German
Since he didn't believe that salvation was acquired through good deeds, how was it achieved?
gift of God's grace
What book did Martin Luther translate to impact German culture?
Bible
When was Martin Luther born?
10 November 1483
Where did Martin Luther go to school?
University of Erfurt
What educational study did Luther start to pursue and immediately  drop?
law
What did Martin Luther fear after a lightening bolt struck near him?
death and divine judgment,
To what did Martin Luther devote all his attention ?
Augustinian order
When was Martin Luther ordained as a priest?
1507
When did Martin Luther receive his Doctor of Theology?
19 October 1512
When was Johann Tetzel sent by the Roman Catholic Church to Germany to sell indulgences?
1516
When did Martin Luther protest the sale of indulgences to his bishop?
31 October 1517
Whose saying about purgatory did Martin Luther object to?
Johann Tetzel
Who did Martin Luther say was the lone granter of forgiveness?
God
Whose saying about freeing souls from purgatory was often quoted?
Tetzel
What story has little foundation in truth?
the posting on the door
When was Luther's 95 Theses translated into German?
January 1518
When did Luther's writings to spread to France, England and Italy?
1519
What did Martin Luther do during 1510 to 1520?
lectured
Of whom, to Luther, was justification entirely the work ?
God
What was the first point of the Reformation?
Christ and His salvation
To whom did Luther send a letter containing his 95 Theses?
Archbishop Albrecht
Which Pope sought to undermine Luther's theories?
Pope Leo X
When did papal nuncio Karl von Miltitz get Luther to make concessions ?
January 1519
When did the Pope warned Luther of excommunication? 
15 June 1520
What authority enforced the ban on the 95 Theses?
secular authorities
Who spoke to Luther about his books on behalf of the Empire?
Johann Eck
What did Luther do at the end of his speech?
raised his arm
What did Luther refuse to do?
recant his writings
How was the fate of Luther decided?
private conferences
What was planned for Luther by Frederick III after the meeting?
Luther's disappearance
What did Luther call good works that existed solely to attract God's favor?
a sin
When did Luther broaden his attacks to include core Church doctrines?
summer of 1521
How did Luther broaden the Reformation in terms of prophecy?
prophetic faith
Who supported Andreas Karistadt in reform at Wittenberg?
Gabriel Zwilling
When did Luther return to Wittenberg?
6 March 1522
How quick was the effect of Luther's preaching?
immediate
What did Luther seek to restore?
public order
What was Nicholas Storch ?
Zwickau prophet
Who did Luther remind the peasants to obey?
temporal authorities
How many ways did Luther justify his opposition to revolt?
on three grounds
What did Luther deny the rebels?
backing for the uprising
Who did Martin Luther marry?
Katharina von Bora
When were Luther and his prospective bride engaged?
13 June 1525
What was Luther's marriage seen as by others?
seal of approval
When did Luther and his wife live?
The Black Cloister
In organizing a new church, what did Luther find to be unworkable for congregations?
choosing their own ministers
What did Luther try to avoid in setting up his church?
extreme change
When did Luther write  a German mass?
early 1526
When did Luther introduce the new worship?
1527
What did Luther devise to teach  Christianity to the congregation?
catechism
What was one of Luther's most personal writings?
The catechism
Which work of Luther's is effective in teaching children?
Small Catechism
When did Martin Luther publish his translation of the New Testament?
1522
Where was the language Luther used in his translations spoken?
Saxon chancellery
At the time of Martin Luther what was in demand?
German-language publications
In what type of work was Luther prolific?
authoring hymns
What caused Luther to write hymns?
events in his life
When did Luther write Wir glauben all an einen Gott?
1524
When did Luther produce a hymnic version of the Lord's Prayer?
1538
When did Luther write the hymn From Depths of Woe I cry to You?
1523
Which of Luther's hymn was the main one for Advent?
Nun komm, der Heiden Heiland
What does Luther's hymn Christ unser Herr zum jordan kam concern?
baptism
Where were Luther's hymns included?
early Lutheran hymnals
What composer used Luther's hymns in his works?
Johann Sebastian Bach
What did Luther believe that the soul does after death?
sleeps
Who noticed that Luther's view of the soul after death differed from later theologians?
Franz Pieper
Where did Luther say that the soul doesn't sleep, but rather has visions?
Commentary on Genesis
When did Philip I convene an assembly to set doctrine in the Protestant states?
October 1529
What point did the theologians differ on concerning the Last Supper?
words spoken by Jesus
When was the Augsburg Confession signed?
1530
What do scholars sometimes assert that Luther believed about what faith and reason were to each other?
antithetical
What did Luther state as a means of discouraging mistreatment of Jews?
Jesus Christ was born a Jew
How did Luther view the Ottoman Turks?
as a scourge
What book did Luther read in 1542?
Qur'an
What did Johannes Agricola preach that God's gospel revealed?
God's wrath to Christians
What did Luther's answer to the antinomians reaffirms?
second use of the law
What do the Ten Commandments teach Christians how to do?
ought to live
What sacrament accords Christians renewed life?
baptism
What did Philip I wish to do around 1539?
wanted to marry
What had Luther's community done to Jews years earlier?
expelled Jews
What was Luther's major work of 60,000 words on the Jews?
Von den Juden und Ihren Lügen
What did Luther speak out about in Saxony?
the Jews
Who was the most widely read writer of his generation?
Luther
When did seven Protestant churches agree with the Nazi policy of forcing Jews to wear yellow arm bands?
17 December 1941
How do some scholars view the Nazi use of Luther's work?
opportunistic
Other scholars contend that Luther's words lent what element to Christian suspicion of Jews?
violence
What does Mark U. Edwards claim as a possible cause of Luther's antisemitism?
declining state of mind
When have Lutheran Churches repudiated Luther's statements about the Jews?
Since the 1980s
How was Luther's health for the years of 1531 to 1546?
his health deteriorated
What made Luther even more short tempered than usual?
poor physical health
Where was Luther's last sermon preached?
Eisleben
To where was Luther's final journey?
Mansfeld
When were the negotiations finished in Mansfeld?
17 February 1546
What event took away his ability of speech?
apoplectic stroke
What was later discovered written by Luther?
his last statement
What kind of images of Luther were used to advertise Protestantism? 
monumental
When is Luther commemorated in the Lutheran Calendar of Saints ?
18 February
What is Southern California often abbreviated as?
SoCal
What is the name of the region that is not defined by the eight or 10 county definitions?
Southern California Megaregion
Which coastline does Southern California touch?
Pacific
What is the name of the water body that is found to the east?
Colorado River
The cities of Los Angeles and San Diego are a part of which state?
California
Orange, San Diego, Riverside and San Bernardino make up four of the five counties. What is the name of the last county?
Los Angeles
What is the name given to the district that is associated with the motion picture industry?
Hollywood
Other than surf, what other culture is southern California home to?
skateboard
What is the name of the desert city?
Palm Springs
Geographically speaking, where is California's north - south midway point in terms of latitude?
37° 9' 58.23"
Which country used to rule California?
Mexico
Other than land laws, what else were the Californios dissatisfied with?
inequitable taxes
Which newspaper defined southern California?
Los Angeles Times
Which organizations most commonly divide and promote the state?
regional tourism groups
Where does southern California's megalopolis standard in terms of population nationwide?
third
What is the main gap to continued urbanization?
Camp Pendleton
What kind of climate does southern California maintain?
Mediterranean
The region spans starting at islands found in which body of water?
Pacific Ocean
How many earthquakes does southern California experience in a year?
10,000
Which fault can produce a magnitude earthquake of 8.0?
San Andreas
Southern California's distinctive regions are divided culturally, politically and what other trait?
economically
Southern California had a population of 22,680,010 according to the census from which year?
2010
What is the name associated with the eight areas that make up a part of southern California?
Metropolitan Statistical Areas
What is the largest city in all of California?
Los Angeles
What resource is the economy of southern California depedent on?
petroleum
Motion pictures, petroleum and aircraft manufacturing have been major industries since which decade?
1920s
What type of district is southern California home to many of?
business
Downtown Burbank is an example of what kind of district?
business
The Sand Bernardino - Riverside area maintains what kind of district?
business
Which county is developing its business center?
Orange
What is the central business district of San Diego?
Downtown San Diego
What is the second busiest airport in the United States?
Los Angeles International Airport
What is the name of the commuter rail system?
Metrolink
What is the United States busiest commercial port?
Port of Los Angeles
What is the moniker that is being used to describe the region's diversified technology?
The Tech Coast
The Los Angeles Rams are an example of what kind of sports team?
NFL
Which team was suspended from the MLS?
Chivas USA
What other kind of sport is popular in southern California?
College
What is a growing sport in southern California?
Rugby
What company was formed by the merger of Sky Television and British Satellite Broadcasting?
BSkyB
What year was Setanta Sports awarded Primeier Leage rights to broadcast?
2006
What consortium was BSkyB excluded from?
ONdigital
What service did BSkyB chare additional subscription fees for?
Sky+ PVR
What is the name of the TV scrambling system BSkyB uses?
VideoGuard
What channels were removed from the network in March of 2007?
basic channels
when did the English High court find Microsoft's use of the term "SkyDrive" infringed on Sky's right?
July 2013
Who was the chief executive officer when the service began?
Sam Chisholm
Sky UK Limited is formerly known by what name?
BSkyB
What is the name of Sky Q's broadband router?
Sky Q Hub
What are BSkyB's standard definition broadcasts compliant with?
DVB-compliant MPEG-2
When was Sky Digital launched?
1998
When did BSkyB launch it's HDTV service?
22 May 2006
When did BSkyB announce it's intention to replace it's free-to-air digital channels?
8 February 2007
What are free-to-air encrypted broadcasts known as?
free-to-view
When were the talks held for braodcast right to the Primier league for a five year period from the 1992 season?
1991
Who does BSkyB have an operating license from?
Ofcom
When was BSkyB's digital service launched?
1 October 1998
When was virgin media rebranded from NTL Telewest?
2007
How many homes had BSkyB's direct-to-home satellite service available to them in 2010?
10 million
What did Alec Shelbrooke propose payments of benefits to be made on?
Welfare Cash Card
What were the annual carriage fees for the channels?
£30m
What kind of economy does Victoria have?
diversified
Where is the Asian influence strongest in Victoria?
Bendigo
What kind of representational system does the Victorian Legislative Council have?
multi-member proportional
What political party is strongest in Melbourne's working class suburbs?
Australian Labor Party
What percentage of Victorians are Christian?
61.1%
Where in Australia is Victoria located?
south-east
What is the term for the original Aboriginal people of Victoria?
Koori
How much Victorian farmland is farmed in grains?
26,000 square kilometres
When did Victoria enact its constitution?
1975
What is the weather type of Mallee and upper Wimmera?
warmest regions
What are public schools in Victoria?
state or government
What type of manufacturing plant is Victoria soon losing?
major car brands
How high are Victoria's alpine regions?
2,000 m
Where is the coldest section of Victoria?
Victorian Alps
Who owns the rail lines in Victoria?
government-owned
How many seats does Victoria have in the Australian House of Representatives?
37
On what date was Victoria declared independent from New South Wales?
1 July 1851
By August 2010 how many public schools did Victoria have?
1,548
What state in Australia is the center of dairy farming?
Victoria
What is the gauge of the Victorian rail lines?
1,600 mm
When was the colony of New South Wales founded?
1788
When was there a armed protest at Ballarat about mining taxes?
1854
What does the Premier of Victoria need to lead in the Legislative Assembly? 
most seats
How much did the gross agricultural product increase from 2003-04?
$8.7 billion
What part do events in Victoria's economy  play? 
tourism
Where was France's Huguenot population largely centered?
the southern and central parts of France
The term Huguenot was originally meant to confer?
derision
What helped spread Protestantism in France?
availability of the Bible in vernacular languages
What were the towns granted to the Huguenots in 1598 collectively called?
villes de sûreté
Where did the first Huguenot colonists settle?
at the Cape of Good Hope
When did Huguenots colonize in North America?
1624
Where in South Carolina did Huguenot nobility settle?
the Charleston Orange district
Who was Louis XIV's main rival?
William III of Orange
What proclamation abolished protestantism in France?
Edict of Fontainebleau
What group specifically opposed the Huguenots?
Catholic Church in France
When did these rebellions take place?
between 1621 and 1629
How many protestants live in France today?
one million
What city north of New York was settled by Huguenots?
New Rochelle
What country initially received the largest number of Huguenot refugees?
the Dutch Republic
Where was the Gate of King Hugo?
Tours
Where did Huguenots and Walloons settle in England?
Canterbury
French Church Street is in what Irish town?
Cork City
What is the common term for the loss of key members of French society to Huguenot emigration?
brain drain
What was Henry IV known as before taking the throne?
Henry of Navarre
What was required of Huguenot children after the Edict was revoked?
education of children as Catholics
What were the first two destinations of Huguenot emigres?
Switzerland and the Netherlands
Families with French names in South Africa speak what language today?
Afrikaans
What Revolutionary War midnight rider was a Huguenot descendant?
Paul Revere
What industry was centered in Bedfordshire?
lace
What were the two Huguenot neighborhoods created in Berlin?
Dorotheenstadt and Friedrichstadt
Which central European country had a Calvinist ruler?
Prussia
There was a 16th century Huguenot settlement near what modern day Florida city?
Jacksonville
What was the name of the first Huguenot outpost in South Carolina?
Charlesfort
In what English colony were Huguenot settlers promised land?
Virginia
When was the Dutch Revolt?
1568–1609
What English law made that country more welcoming to Huguenots?
Foreign Protestants Naturalization Act
What war in Ireland featured Huguenot regiments?
Williamite war
Which noble helped establish the Huguenot settlement in Saarland?
Prince Louis de Condé
What two member nations of the Holy Roman Empire received Huguenot refugees?
Electorate of Brandenburg and Electorate of the Palatinate
From what French King did the Huguenot name possibly descend?
Hugues Capet
Who was one French pro-reform Roman Catholic of the 15th century? 
Jacques Lefevre
When was the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre?
24 August – 3 October 1572
Who became king in 1643?
Louis XIV
What present day county is New Rochelle in?
Westchester
How did Huguenots evolve their religious beliefs in the New World?
affiliated with other Protestant denominations
Who was a prominent Huguenot in Holland?
Pierre Bayle
What early Huguenot Church was established in England?
The French Protestant Church of London
What protestant religions made Northern European counties safe for Huguenot immigration?
Lutheran and Reformed
What German ruler invited Huguenot immigration?
Frederick William
Along with geothermal and nuclear, what is a notable non-combustion heat source?
solar
What was the first true engine that was commercially successful?
atmospheric engine
In what country was a full-scale working railway steam locomotive first invented?
United Kingdom
What device is used to recycle the boiler water in most steam engines?
water pump
How many expansion stages are used by the triple expansion engine?
three
Along with poppet valve gears, what type of gears utilized separate admission and exhaust valves to give ideal events?
Corliss
What are sometimes present in the boiler's firebox crown?
Lead fusible plugs
Who patented a steam engine in 1781?
James Watt
In what century did the history of the steam engine begin?
first
What type of engines became widespread around the end of the 19th century?
compound
The use of what device represented the last major evolution of the steam engine?
steam turbines
What is the usual source of heat for boiling water in the steam engine?
burning combustible materials
What instrument is used to examine steam engine performance?
steam engine indicator
At what degree are the pistons of a two-cylinder compound connected to the cranks?
90
What is a term for the reversing of steam flow in a piston engine after each stroke?
counterflow
What is the name of a uniflow engine that takes in steam in hot areas and exhausts it in cold?
Quasiturbine
What type of steam engine doesn't need valves to direct steam?
oscillating cylinder
What happens to the working fluid in a closed loop system?
recycled continuously
What limits the Rankine cycle's efficiency?
working fluid
What devices have been credited as the moving force of the Industrial Revolution?
Steam engines
What was the name of the locomotive that debuted in 1808?
Catch Me Who Can
Who patented a high-pressure compound engine in 1805?
Arthur Woolf
What percentage of electricity was made by steam turbine in the 1990s?
90
What is the steam engine's thermodynamic basis?
Rankine cycle
How was the efficiency of a steam engine typically evaluated?
duty
What type of engines became popular for power generation after piston steam engines?
steam turbines
Who developed the first commercial steam powered device?
Thomas Savery
Who invented a high-pressure steam engine around 1800?
Richard Trevithick
What modern company has been notably working on a steam engine using modern materials?
Energiprojekt AB
What do power station steam turbines use as a cold sink in the absence of CHP?
surface condensers
What did Watt add to the steam engine in 1788?
centrifugal governor
After what year was compounding frequently used in marine engines?
1880
What is another term for shortening the admission event?
shortening the cutoff
Who received the first steam engine patent?
Jerónimo de Ayanz y Beaumont
What is another term for rotors?
rotating discs
What is the power-to-weight ratio of a steam plant compared to that of an internal combustion engine?
lower
What is an example of a rotary engine without pistons?
Wankel
When did Watt finish the development of his improvements to Newcomen's engine?
1775
How many mechanisms does a typical steam engine have to keep boiler pressure from getting too high?
two
What was the ultimate development of the horizontal engine?
Corliss steam engine
What scientific field's theory has received contributions from the steam engine?
thermodynamic
What is a main advantage of the Rankine cycle?
during the compression stage relatively little work is required to drive the pump
What is an example of a pump component?
injector
The frequent availability of what substance allowed land-based steam engines to exhaust a great deal of steam?
feed water
What do nuclear power plants heat to create electricity?
water
What is the Rankine cycle sometimes called?
practical Carnot cycle
The atomic number of the periodic table for oxygen?
8
Oxygen is released in cellular respiration by?
photosynthesis
Who proved that air is necessary for combustion?
Robert Boyle
"An Account of Further Discoveries in Air" was published by who in 1775?
Joseph Priestley
What inventor built on to the findings of Philo of  Byzantium?
Leonardo da Vinci
What is needed to make combustion happen?
heat or a spark
What chemical element was the cause of the Apollo 1 disastrous outcome?
pure O
Granite is made up largely of what chemical compound?
oxides of silicon
What did John Dalton think that all elements were in number present in compounds?
monatomic
Of what were materials that left little residue thought to contain?
phlogiston
How is dioxygen most simply described?
covalent double bond
When did Carl Wilhelm Scheele discover oxygen?
1773
What is the term for the arrangement of two unpaired electrons in dioxygen?
spin triplet state
What did Lavoisier conclude was consumed by combustion in his experiments?
air
What is the name for O3 most often used?
ozone
What is the most common form of oxygen on the planet?
dioxygen
What chemist managed to make enough liquid oxygen to use for study?
James Dewar
What component of water is more soluble than nitrogen?
Oxygen
Where does oxygen rank by mass in the planet's biosphere?
most abundant
By what century did researchers see that they could liquefy air?
late 19th
What celestial object eluded efforts to measure oxygen?
Sun
What is the name for a form of oxygen in which electrons are paired?
Singlet
What group of scientists seek to measure the amounts of oxygen in marine animals?
Paleoclimatologists
At what wavelength do the spectrophotometric bands peak?
687 and 760 nm
What magnetic character do triplet O2 have?
paramagnetic
What do the reactive forms of oxygen produce in organisms?
dangerous by-products
At what temperature will oxygen condense?
90.20 K
Where on Earth is free oxygen found?
water
When did photosynthetic organisms evolve on Earth?
3.5 billion years ago
What produces the high levels of oxygen on Earth?
oxygen cycle
What mechanism can be used to make oxygen?
zeolite molecular sieves
Electrolysis of what can be used to produce oxygen and hydrogen?
water
As a euphoric how is oxygen used in bars?
recreational
What device is used to treat various conditions such as carbon monoxide poisoning?
Hyperbaric (high-pressure) medicine
What medical treatment is used to benefit patients with hearth and lung disorders?
Oxygen therapy
What characteristic of oxygen causes it to form bonds with other elements?
electronegativity
What event would necessitate airline passengers to need a supplemental supply of oxygen? 
cabin depressurization
What do oxygen tanks, cryogenics, and chemical compounds serve as for oxygen?
storage
What type of compounds such as acetone,contain oxygen?
organic solvents
In what type of molecules are oxygen found?
biomolecules
What health condition can deep sea diving cause?
Oxygen toxicity
Why is breathing oxygen in space craft not dangerous to health?
low total pressures
When can oxygen gas produce a toxic condition?
at elevated partial pressures
When did the 1973 oil crisis begin?
October 1973
Why did the European nations and Japan separated themselves from United States during the crisis?
to avoid being targeted by the boycott
When did the United States withdraw from the Bretton Woods Accord?
On August 15, 1971
From 1947 to 1967, how much did the price of oil increase?
risen by less than two percent per year
When did Syria and Egypt launch a surprise attack on Israel?
On October 6, 1973
Why did OPEC raise the price of oil to $5.11?
In response to American aid to Israel
How much did Saudi Arabia spend on spreading Wahhabism?
over 100 billion dollars
What is one of the reason that US production has been held responsible for recessions and lower economic growth?
distribution and price disruptions
What has a negative influence over the US economy?
The embargo
Which country faced a complete embargo in the EEC?
Netherlands
Which country is not badly hit by the embargo?
UK
What made the oil crisis worse in the US?
Price controls
Who is the first administrator of the Federal Energy Office?
William E. Simon
What is the speed limit set to reduce consumption?
55 mph
What was the catalyst that created greater interest in renewable resources?
energy crisis
Which country was thinking about going to war to forcibly take Middle Eastern oil fields?
U.S
Which country is the most dependent on Arab oil?
Japan
Which country's invasion show the insecurity of the Middle East?
USSR's invasion
Which sized cars were the least demanded cars in the crisis?
large cars
When did Honda, Toyota and Nissan open US assembly plants?
A decade after the 1973
Name a type of Toyota compact trucks?
Toyota Hilux
Why did GM, Ford and Chrysler introduced fuel-efficient and small cars to the US market?
An increase in imported cars
By which year did full sized American cars shrink to be smaller?
1979
When was OPEC production of oil being surpassed?
1981
What project put the first Americans into space?
Project Mercury
How long did Project Apollo run?
1961 to 1972
In what year did the Apollo 1 cabin fire occur?
1967
What was the first spacecraft to orbit another celestial body?
Apollo 8
How many people could the Mercury capsule hold?
one
In what year was the Apollo program announced?
1960
Who was elected President in November 1960?
John F. Kennedy
Who was the first person in space?
Yuri Gagarin
What month and day did Kennedy message his vice president about the status of the program?
April 20
Who originally led the Space Task Group?
Robert R. Gilruth
Where would the Launch Operations Center be located, as more land was needed for a bigger rocket?
Merritt Island
How many launch pads were originally planned?
three
Who did Webb recruit for better project management?
Dr. George E. Mueller
What did Mueller have experience with prior to joining the space program?
Air Force missile projects
What did the engineers fear would be difficult in space due to it never being attempted in Earth orbit?
a rendezvous —let alone a docking
Who led the committee established by Seaman?
Nicholas E. Golovin
Who was Kennedy's science adviser that opposed manned spacecraft flights?
Jerome Wiesner
Who was keeping pressure and showing disagreements for the LOR, even in front of the President?
Wiesner
What was the advantage that the LOR method produced in the event of a spacecraft failure?
spacecraft to be used as a "lifeboat"
What was the shape that Faget designed for the Apollo command module?
cone-shaped
How many people was the CM designed to carry in the end?
three
What helped support the Command Module with a propulsion engine and propellants?
Service Module (SM)
Who was rewarded with building the CSM?
North American Aviation
How many astronauts was the LM intended to take from orbit of the moon to the surface of the moon?
two
Who had worked on the Saturn series even before the Apollo program began officially?
Wernher von Braun
What did the initial first stages of the Saturn I tests carry?
dummy upper stages filled with water
What was the name of the upgraded Saturn I called?
Saturn IB
What was intended to take a CSM and LM, fully fueled, to the moon?
three-stage Saturn V
From what project groups were the Apollo astronauts selected?
Mercury and Gemini
How many astronauts visited space on missions and were rewarded for their efforts?
32
In what year were two Block I CSMs launched?
1966
How many people were on the test flight of the AS-206?
unmanned
Who selected the first Apollo crew?
Deke Slayton
What happened to the AS-205 mission originally?
canceled
Who was appointed to head a team to find the problems North America had regarding manned space flight?
Samuel Phillips
Where did Apollo 1's crew conduct tests at Kennedy Space Center?
altitude chamber
What was the first problem astronauts encountered during the plugs-out test?
strange odor in their spacesuits
Who kept tabs on the accident review board that NASA created?
both houses of Congress
What type of mixture was created to replace the pure oxygen atmosphere inside the cabin?
nitrogen/oxygen mixture
What type of missions were approved by Mueller after the incident?
sequence
What was the technical name of the first unmanned Saturn V flight, Apollo 4?
AS-501
Which Apollo was the first testing of the LM, unmanned, in Earth's orbit?
Apollo 5
What type of Saturn was originally going to be used for Apollo 8?
two Saturn IBs
From what project did the Apollo 11 crew consist entirely of?
Gemini
Charles Conrad and Alan Bean were on what spacecraft to the moon?
Apollo 12
What would the latter Apollo missions carry to the moon to increase exploration?
Lunar Roving Vehicle (LRV)
What happened to the Apollo 13 crew to force them to use the LM as a "life boat" as it had been designed?
liquid oxygen tank exploded
What Apollo mission was first cancelled due to not being needed to build the Skylab in space, as it was pre-built on the ground?
Apollo 20
How did the rocks on the moon compare to those on Earth?
extremely old
As the moon has no atmosphere, what is prevalant in many moon rock samples brought back from Apollo missions?
micrometeoroid impact craters
How much was NASA's procured spending on the Apollo project estimated to be at in 2005 after inflation?
$170 billion
What did NASA name the series seeking up to 30 more flights to Earth's orbit?
Apollo X
When was the Skylab launched?
1973
Which NASA orbiter photographed evidence of each site on the moon that a manned Apollo mission landing occurred?
Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter
What crew sent the first ever live images of the Earth and Moon to earth?
Apollo 8
What type of camera was used to record the Moon landing?
special Apollo TV camera
Who compiled the original surviving Apollo 11 landing data?
Nafzger
What are the three sources of European Union law?
primary law, secondary law and supplementary law.
Who applies European Union law?
courts of member states and the Court of Justice of the European Union
What are the two primary constitutional sources of the European Union?
Treaty on European Union (TEU) and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU)
Which treaty provides that the European Union law be applied to metropolitan territories of member states?
Treaty on European Union (TEU)
How did the principle treaties that form the European Union begin?
with common rules for coal and steel, and then atomic energy
When was there an attempt to reform the law of the EU?
Following the Nice Treaty
What is the main executive body of the EU?
The European Commission
What commission was censured in 1999, and paved the way for Commissioners to abuse their power?
the Santer Commission
Which two governing bodies have legislative veto power?
the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union
The legislative body, the Council, are made up of what type of individuals?
different ministers of the member states
What type of vote must the Parliament have to either block or suggest changes to the Commission's proposals?
a majority
Which branch of the EU has had the most influence on the development of EU law?
judicial branch
If there is a conflict between EU law and national law, which law take precedence?
EU law
What do all member states agree takes precedence over national law?
EU law
Which type of law makes EU institutions and its member states follow the law?
administrative law
In which case was it held that the provisions of the treaties are directly effective if they are clear, unconditional, and don't require further action by EU or national authorities?
Van Gend en Loos v Nederlandse Administratie der Belastingen
What generally does not allow citizens to sue other citizens?
Directives
What happens first if a Directive's deadline for implementation is not met?
the member state cannot enforce conflicting laws, and a citizen may rely on the Directive in such an action
Which courts have a duty to interpret domestic law as far as possible?
national courts
Which entity developed the principles of European Union Law?
the European Court of Justice
How long has Proportionality been recognized as one of the general principles of EU law?
since the 1950s
How long has the concept of legal certainty been recognized as one of the general principles by the EU law?
since the 1960s
Where is the European Court of justice likely to get inspiration from?
from the constitutional traditions common to the member states
How many original treaties establishing the EU protected fundamental rights?
None
When was the Lisbon Treaty established?
2007
The Social Chapter is a chapter of what treaty?
1997 Treaty of Amsterdam
How many member states adopted the Social Charter in 1989?
11 of the then 12 member states
What lead to the UK to subscribe to the agreement on Social Policy?
the election of the UK Labour Party to government
Which countries were the European Coal and Steel Community agreement between?
France, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Germany
In which article does the Treaty of Lisbon prohibit anti-competitive agreements?
Article 101(1)
When was the concept of a social market economy introduced into EU law?
2007
What helps the process of free movement of goods?
a customs union, and the principle of non-discrimination
What is the minimum percent of alcohol content a German law requires all spirits and liqueurs to have?
25
Which two importers claimed that under a French competition law, they were prevented from selling Picon beer under wholesale price?
Keck and Mithouard
What have the Treaties sought to enable since its foundation?
to enable people to pursue their life goals in any country through free movement
Which articles of the Free Movement of Workers Regulation set out the primary provisions on equal treatment of workers?
articles 1 to 7
What has lately been being viewed as a fundamental status of member state nationals by the Court of Justice?
Citizenship of the EU
Which Treaty protects the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services?
the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union
In which year did a toxic waste spill from a European ship prompt the Commission to look into legislation against waste?
2006
The freedom to provide services under TFEU article 56 applies to who?
to people who give services "for remuneration"
Which newspaper's parent company could not evade tax by shifting its residence to the Netherlands?
the Daily Mail
Which name is also used to describe the Amazon rainforest in English?
also known in English as Amazonia or the Amazon Jungle,
Which type of climate may have allowed the rainforest to spread across the continent?
the wetter climate may have allowed the tropical rainforest to spread out across the continent.
In which point did the drainage basin of the Amazon split?
During the mid-Eocene, it is believed that the drainage basin of the Amazon was split along the middle of the continent by the Purus Arch.
What does LGM stands for?
Last Glacial Maximum
What is the name of the satellite that measured the amount of dust?
CALIPSO
What is the name of the book written by Archeologist Betty Meggers?
Man and Culture in a Counterfeit Paradise
Who was the first European to travel the Amazon River?
Francisco de Orellana
What is terra preta called?
black earth
How many species of insects are known in the region?
2.5 million
How many kilometers of acres of the Ecuadorian rainforest is supported?
62 acres
Which animal that lives in the Amazon river may produce a deadly shock?
electric eels
What is the process of removing trees from a forest known as?
Deforestation
How many square kilometres of the Amazon forest was lost by 1991?
415,000
Highways built in the Amazon rainforest were built primarily for what kind of farmers?
soy farmers
What are environmentalists concerned about losing in the Amazon forest?
loss of biodiversity
What change in conditions may make the Amazon rainforest unsustainable?
reduced rainfall and increased temperatures
What kind of territories are being destroyed by ecocide in the Amazon?
indigenous territories
What kind of sending technology is being used to protect tribal lands in the Amazon?
remote sensing
Classifying the stages of what is important to mapping aspects of the Amazon?
tree growth
In what year did the Amazon experience its worst drought of recent history?
2005
In what year did the Amazon experience a drought that may have been more extreme than in 2005?
2010
What are Ctenophora commonly known as?
comb jellies
How much can Ctenophores eat in one day?
ten times their own weight
What gender are most species of Ctenophores?
Most species are hermaphrodites
What sea were Ctenophores accidently introduced?
the Black Sea
When did the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction happen?
66 million years ago
Jellyfish ans sea anemones belong to what phylum?
cnidarians
What is the jelly-like susbtance called?
mesoglea
What are the hairs on ctenophores called?
cilia
Which cidippid is used as a description on ctenophores in most textbooks?
Pleurobrachia
The inside of a ctenophore is lined with what?
epithelium
What are the eight comb rows on the outer surface called?
swimming-plates
How do ctenophores control buoyancy?
osmotic pressure
What is the largest sensory feature of the ctenophora?
aboral organ
What is the common coastal pleurobrachia called?
sea gooseberry
What are the tentacles of cydipped ctenophores are usually fringed with?
tentilla
How many rows of combs are there?
eight rows
What does the lobata have pair of?
lobes
What does the bathocyroe and ocyropsis do to escape danger?
by clapping their lobes
Beroida are known by what other name?
Nuda
Which species are ribbon-shaped planktonic animals?
The Cestida
What do most platyctenida have on their aboral surface?
a pair of tentilla-bearing tentacles
How are eggs and sperm released?
via pores in the epidermis
Juvenile and adult  beroe lack what?
tentacles and tentacle sheaths
What do bathyctena chuni, euplokamis stationis and eurhamphaea vexilligera have in common?
they produce secretions (ink) that luminesce
Are ctenophores predators, vegetarian or parasitic?
Almost all ctenophores are predators
Why was it thought that  ctenophores were a poor diet for other animals?
their low ratio of organic matter to salt and water
What is blamed for causing the sharp drop in fish catches in the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov?
ctenophore Mnemiopsis leidyi
Why are ctenophores extremely rare as fossils?
Because of their soft, gelatinous bodies
How old were the fossils found in China?
515 million years
Recent studies believe  that ctenophores are the sister lineage to what?
all other animals
Which genus of ctenophores does not have cydipped-like larvae?
beroids
Which city is the fifth-largest city in California?
Fresno
The Central Pacific Railroad established a station for its new line in what year?
1872
In 1940, what percentage of the population in Fresno was Asian?
2.7%
What new product did Bank of America introduce in 1958?
BankAmericard
Who wrote "Walking in Fresno?"
Bill Aken
How many large public parks does Fresno have?
three
During what period did downtown Fresno thrive?
Between the 1880s and World War II
In what year did Fresno get its first pedestrian mall?
1964
Where is the neighborhood of Sunnyside located in Fresno?
Fresno's far southeast side
The Tower District is centered around which historic theatre?
Tower Theatre
During what period did the Tower Theatre re-open?
late 1970s
What type of theater do the neighborhoods feature?
live theater
What type of homes is Fresno known for?
early twentieth century homes
Which boulevard can you find many majestic homes in the area?
Huntington Boulevard
What is another name for the west side of Fresno?
"Southwest Fresno"
Who is Kearney Boulevard named after?
M. Theo Kearney
When were the public housing developments built in the neighborhood?
between the 1960s and 1990s
Who founded Woodward Park?
Ralph Woodward
When was the Sierra Sky Park Airport formed?
1946
How would one describe the summers in Fresno?
hot and dry
What is the hottest temperature record for Fresno?
115 °F
what was Fresno's population in 2010?
494,665
How many households has kids under the age of 18 living in them?
68,511
How many people lived in Fresno in 2000, according to the Census Bureau? 
427,652
Why does Fresno only have UHF television stations?
To avoid interference with existing VHF television stations
What route connects Fresno with the California Central Valley?
State Route 99
Which is the largest city not connected to an interstate highway?
Fresno
Which company provides train service in Fresno?
Amtrak San Joaquins
What did Paul Baran develop 
Paul Baran developed the concept Distributed Adaptive Message Block Switching
Packet Switching contrast with what other principal 
circuit switching
How is packet mode communication implemented 
with or without intermediate forwarding nodes
What did Baran develop during research at RAND 
the concept of distributed adaptive message block switching
What did Donald Davies Develop
independently developed the same message routing methodology as developed by Baran
What does each packet includ in connectionless mode 
each packet includes complete addressing information
Is the packet header long 
The packet header can be small, as it only needs to contain this code and any information, such as length, timestamp, or sequence number
WHat do x.25 and Frame Relay both require
connection-oriented operations. But X.25 does it at the network layer of the OSI Model. Frame Relay does it at level two, the data link layer
WHen did ARPNET and SITA become operational
1969
What was Apple Talk 
a proprietary suite of networking protocols developed by Apple Inc. in 1985
What network was designed by the french 
CYCLADES packet switching network
What is  DECnet
a suite of network protocols created by Digital Equipment Corporation
What was Warner Sinback
a data network based on this voice-phone network was designed to connect GE's four computer sales and service centers
WHy was the Merit network formed in Michigan 
as a means to help the state's educational and economic development
What was telenet 
the first FCC-licensed public data network in the United States
What was Tymnet
an international data communications network headquartered in San Jose, CA
How many types of X.25 networks were there originally 
There were two kinds of X.25 networks. Some such as DATAPAC and TRANSPAC
What was AUSTPAC
AUSTPAC was an Australian public X.25 network operated by Telstra
What was DATANET 1 
was the public switched data network operated by the Dutch PTT Telecom
What is CSNET
The Computer Science Network
 what is Internet2
a not-for-profit United States computer networking consortium led by members from the research and education communities, industry, and government
What is NSFNET
The National Science Foundation Network
what does vBNS stand for 
The Very high-speed Backbone Network Service
Where did the black death originate?
the arid plains of Central Asia
What does it mean for a disease to be enzootic?
commonly present
Who introduced plague to Europe?
Genoese traders
Which direction did the disease first move in?
northwest across Europe
What effect did the plague have on the Middle East?
serious depopulation and permanent change in both economic and social structures
Who claimed that the name Black Death first appeared in 1631?
Gasquet
What was the black death originally blamed on?
the heavens
What was considered responsible for the black death as well as the epidemic in southern China?
Yersinia pestis
Who wrote about the great pestilence in 1893?
Francis Aidan Gasquet
What is the mortality rate of the modern bubonic plague?
30–75%
When did the Plos Pathogens paper come out?
In October 2010
What are clades?
genetic branches
What is the current status of the Haensch study?
confirmed and amended
Who challenged the plague theory first?
British bacteriologist J. F. D. Shrewsbury
What is as important as identifying plague symptoms?
epidemiological account of the plague
Why might rats not be responsible for the plague?
the rat population was insufficient
What does Graham Twigg propose about the spread of disease?
a form of anthrax
How much of the population in the Middle East died of the plague?
about a third.
When did the plague return to Europe?
throughout the 14th to 17th centuries
What did historians do in the absence of census figures?
propose a range of preincident population figures from as high as 7 million to as low as 4 million
How many people died of plague in Paris in 1466?
40,000
How many were killed by plague in Italy in the 17th century?
some 1.7 million victims
During which years was the plague present in Islamic countries?
between 1500 and 1850
An igneous rock is a rock that crystallizes from what?
melt (magma and/or lava)
What was the most important discovery that led to the understanding that Earth's lithosphere is separated into tectonic plates?
seafloor spreading
What is the area called where two plates move apart?
divergent boundaries
What types of waves do seismologists use to image the interior of the Earth?
seismic waves
Why is the second timeline needed? 
second scale shows the most recent eon with an expanded scale
What principle relates to the formation of faults and the age of the sequences through which they cut? 
The principle of cross-cutting relationships
What foreign bodies, which are older than the rocks themselves, occur igneous rocks?
xenoliths
Which principle is based on the appearance of fossils in sedimentary rocks?
The principle of faunal succession
When was the ability to use radioactive isotopes to date rock formations developed?
At the beginning of the 20th century
What techniques can be used to determine paleotopography?
Thermochemical techniques
Rock units become thicker and shorten when placed under this type of compression. 
horizontal compression
This causes the rock unit as a whole to become longer and thinner. 
Extension
What is another word for long, planar igneous intrusions?
Dikes
The Hawaiian Islands are made up almost entirely of what?
layered basaltic lava flows
What is petrology?
the study of rocks
What do petrologists use electron microprobes in the laboratory for?
identifying rocks
How else can petrologists understand the pressures at which different mineral phases appear?
pressure physical experiments
What type of geologists give information about strain within the crystalline structure of the rocks?
Structural geologists
Zones in which mountains are built along convergent tectonic plate boundaries are called what?
orogenic wedges
The analysis of stratigraphic sections such as drill cores is done by who?
stratigraphers
Why is it important to precisely date rocks within the stratigraphic section? 
provide better absolute bounds on the timing and rates of deposition
Fielding H. Garrison believes that the science of geology can be traced to where?
Persia
Who is viewed as the first modern geologist?
James Hutton
Who produced the first geological map of the U.S.?
William Maclure
First published by Sir Charles Lyell in 1830 this book was called what? 
Principles of Geology
How many miles south of Edinburgh is Newcastle?
103 miles
Who built a castle in Newcastle in 1080?
Robert Curthose
What was the first recorded settlement in what became Newcastle?
Pons Aelius
Newcastle served as a northern fortress for which country during the Middle Ages?
England's
What did a 1530 royal act restrict shipments of?
coal
Who did the keelmen live with in a tight-knight community east of Newcastle?
their families
Who did the North declare for during the English civil war?
the King
What did the Industrial Revolution cause to happen to Newcastle?
urbanization
What type of layout does Newcastle's streets have in many parts?
medieval
What has recently undergone extensive restoration?
Tyneside Classical
What's the name of the green space north of the center of Newcastle?
Town Moor
What has replaced the former shipping premises?
Large-scale regeneration
What is the historic heart of Newcastle?
the Grainger Town area
What earlier market did the Grainger Market replace?
the Butcher Market
What's the climate like in Newcastle?
oceanic
What year was Newcastle ninth in retail expenditures?
2010
What type of destination is the area around Grey's Monument?
shopping
What was the dominant housing template when industrial centres were growing the fastest?
The Tyneside flat
What proportion did detached homes rise in 2010?
7.8%
The population of Newcastle was 189,863 according to what year's census?
2001
What is the average age of people who live in Newcastle?
37.8
What is the dialect of Newcastle known as?
Geordie
"Bairn" and "hyem" have origins from what culture?
Scandinavia
What was published in February of 2007?
a report
What is referred to as the Diamond Strip?
Collingwood Street
What does Newcastle have a proud history of?
theatre
What does Newcastle still contain many of?
theatres
What is the largest independent library outside of London?
The Literary and Philosophical Society of Newcastle
What festival takes place in April in Newcastle?
The Newcastle Beer Festival
What is the largest traveling fair in Europe?
The Hoppings
What is an annual two-day multicultural event held in Newcastle in late August?
Newcastle Mela
What genre of music is Lindisfarne classified as?
folk-rock
Between what dates was the building on Pilgrim Street refurbished? 
November 2006 and May 2008
Where is the Science Village located?
Centre for Life
What is the earliest known movie featuring scenes filmed outdoors in Newcastle?
On the Night of the Fire
Where is Newcastle's horse racing course located?
Gosforth Park
How far is Newcastle's airport from the center of town?
6 miles
What was enhanced in 2014?
Victorian architecture
How often do trains journey to King's Cross?
half-hourly
What underground railways cover much of Tyne and Wear?
Tyne and Wear Metro
What is the name of the current refurbishment the system is undergoing?
Metro: All Change.'
What major Newcastle road stretches from Edinburgh to London?
the A1
How many bus companies provide service to the city of Newcastle?
3
What year did Newcastle first develop its cycling strategy?
1998
Who runs a service out of Newcastle's International Ferry Terminal?
Danish DFDS Seaways
How many LEA-funded 11 to 18 schools are there in Newcastle?
eleven
How many universities does Newcastle have?
two
How many cathedrals does Newcastle have?
three
Which parish church in Newcastle is typically agreed to be the oldest one in town?
The Parish Church of St Andrew
Where was ITV Tyne Tees based for over 40 years?
City Road
What is the name of Newcastle's first full-time community radio station?
NE1fm
What year did Charles Avison die in Newcastle?
1770
What school did both Hank Marvin and Bruce Welch attend?
Rutherford Grammar School
where is the Victoria and Albert Museum located?
The V&A is located in the Brompton district of the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea
How many acres does the V&A cover?
12.5
The V&A has its origins in which world exposition? 
Great Exhibition of 1851
Who officially opened the V&A?
Queen Victoria
When was the Britain Can Make It exhibition held?
between September and November 1946
What did the V&A present in July 1973 as part of its youth outreach programme?
a rock concert
The V&A is looking to open a branded gallery in which city in Scotland?
Dundee
What was the building that formerly occupied the V&A's present site called?
Brompton Park House
Who was the designer of the Oriental Courts?
Oriental Courts
Who were responsible for the interior decorations of the Green Dining Room?
Philip Webb and William Morris
Who was brought it to work on the museum after the death of Captain Francis Fowke?
Henry Young Darracott Scott
What technique was used to decorate the east side of the building?
sgraffito
Who designed the main façade that stretches along Cromwell Gardens?
Aston Webb
Who sculpted the representations of Prince Albert and Queen Victoria found in the main entrance?
Alfred Drury
Which part of the museum received the first major post-war work?
Art Library
Which gallery was redesigned in the 1990s and later improved in 2002? 
main silverware gallery
Who redesigned the central garden?
Kim Wilkie
In which year did the V&A opened the first permanent architectural history gallery in the UK?
2004
The RIBA's drawing collection of what Italian architect is considered the largest in the world?
Andrea Palladio
Which part of London was Sir Paul Pindar's house, whose façade now resides in the V&A collection, located?
Bishopsgate
Approximately how many items from the Islamic world are held in the V&A collection?
over 19,000
Approximately how many objects comprise the museum's collections of South and South-East Asian art?
nearly 60,000
Approximately how many works of art are included in the Far Eastern collections?
more than 70,000
Which company is the gallery of Japanese art named after?
Toshiba
Tibetan art from which period is represented in the V&A collection?
from the 14th to the 19th century
The Codex Forster is a collection of notebooks by which famous Italian Renaissance polymath?
Leonardo da Vinci
The papers of which famous English Victorian author are collected in the library?
Charles Dickens
The National Art Library at the V&A is known by what other name?
Word and Image Department
In which year did the V&A's Word and Image Department began a large scale digitization project?
2007
Who purchased or commissioned the works of European artists included the British galleries of the V&A?
British patrons
What led to the production of tea paraphernalia such as china and caddies during the Georgian period?
increase in tea drinking
Which Ancient Roman monument is replicated in full-scale in the Cast Courts?
Trajan's Column
In which year are the Meissen Vulture in the V&A collection dated?
1731
Which three famous British potters are represented the the V&A ceramics collection?
Josiah Wedgwood, William De Morgan and Bernard Leach
How many years does the V&A glass collection cover?
4000
When was the main gallery of the V&A's ceramics and glass collection redesigned?
1994
Approximately how many British drawings are included in the V&A collection?
over 10,000
Approximately how many items are in the costume collection of the V&A?
over 14,000
When did the V&A acquired the Costiff collection?
2002
From which period did the objects in the Soulages collection come from?
Italian and French Renaissance
To which year has the Antwerp City Hall doors in the V&A collection been dated?
1580
Approximately how many items comprise the jewelry collection of the V&A?
over 6000
The silver and gold collection of the V&A is divided into which categories?
secular and sacred
To which year is the Gloucester Candlestick dated?
c1110
Approximately how many names were signed on an online petition on the Parliamentary website in response to the closing of the Musical Instruments gallery?
over 5,100
Approximately how many British oil paintings does the museum have?
1130
In which year did John Sheepshanks donated a large collection of paintings?
1857
In which galleries are the French paintings donated by Jones displayed?
continental art 1600–1800
Who created the photographic series titled Animal Locomotion?
Eadweard Muybridge
The V&A has the world's most comprehensive collection of sculptures from which period?
post-classical European
With which museum does the V&A co-owns Canova's The Three Graces?
National Galleries of Scotland
Approximately how many works by Rodin are part of the museum collection?
more than 20
Which British sculptor and a leading member of the New Sculpture movement is represented in the the V&A collection?
George Frampton
Who were the sculpture galleries that opened in 2006 named after?
Dorothy and Michael Hintze
Approximately how many items are in the V&A's textiles collection?
more than 53,000
What is the oldest surviving European tapestry in the V&A collection?
Cloth of St Gereon
When is the Sicilian Tristan Quilt dated?
late 14th-century
What is the former name of the V&A Theatre & Performance galleries?
Theatre Museum
Which area is responsible for the long-term preservation of the V&A collections?
Conservation
What company owns the American Broadcasting Company?
The Walt Disney Company
When did ABC first start?
October 12, 1943
How many affiliated stations does ABC currently have?
232
What company owned NBC in the 1930s?
Radio Corporation of America
What company filed a complaint with the FCC in 1934 concerning problems establishing new stations?
Mutual
To whom did RCA mandate the sale of NBC blue to in 1941?
Mark Woods
What candy company did Edward John Noble own?
Life Savers candy
What new technology allowed ABC to pre-record its shows?
Magnetophon tape recorder
How much did Disney sell it's stake in Eurosport for in 2000?
$155 million
When did ABC Films begin selling programs to other networks?
1959
What was the first international event broadcast by ABC?
coronation of Queen Elizabeth II
What television specials did ABC acquire the rights to in 2000?
Peanuts
When did ABC begin airing Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve?
1974
What series is the longest running program in ABC history?
General Hospital
ABC carries weekend events for what extreme sports competition?
X Games
Who was ABC's vice-president of engineering?
Frank Marx
In 1952, how many television stations were there in the United States?
108
In 1949, UPT was forced to become an independent entity by whom?
U.S. Supreme Court
Who was the president of UPT in 1951?
Leonard Goldenson
When was the FCC's sixth report and order released?
1952
When did WJZ-TV in NYC begin broadcasting?
August 10, 1948
When did ABC premier the Flintstones?
September 30, 1960
When did Walt Disney Productions purchase ABC's shares in the Disneyland theme park?
1959
In 2000, ABC started an internet based campaign focused on what?
circle logo
Who designed ABC's 1998 new graphic design?
Pittard Sullivan
In which season did the ABC logo first appear as an on-screen bug?
1993–94 season
In what year did the first ABC identification card have a 3D appearance?
1977
What graphic designer designed the ABC logo in it's most known form?
Paul Rand
What entity was rumored to be sold by ABC in between May and September 2005?
ABC Radio
In what year did ABC's viewership end in 4th place behind the other major networks?
2004
When was the new two-year affiliate agreement approved?
2002
What cable company removed ABC stations from it's systems in certain markets in April 2000?
Time Warner Cable
What year did ABC's "TGIF" end?
2000
When did ABC first premiere Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?
August 1999
When was the Disney and ABC merger first announced?
July 31, 1995
For which TV season did color first become a dominant format?
1965–66 season
When did ABC's New York flagship stations change their call signs?
May 1, 1953
Who was appointed to be ABC's president by Noble in 1950?
Robert Kintner
Of what hollywood film company was UPT a subsidiary of when it merged with ABC?
Paramount Pictures
What television show for ABC was an adaptation of the 1947 film Wyoming Kid?
Cheyenne
What was Walt Disney's brother's name?
Roy
Who lead the 1968 special programming for ABC Radio's FM stations?
Allen Shaw
In what year did ABC launch the Movie of the Week?
1969
In what decade did ABC finish transitioning to color?
early 1970s
What football program was debuted by ABC in 1970?
Monday Night Football
In what year did the FCC vote for the Financial Interest and Syndication Rules?
1970
What did the Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act ban?
cigarette advertising from all television and radio networks
When did Michael Eisner first join ABC?
1966
Who was the President of ABC television in 1976?
Fred Pierce
What position did Fred Silverman leave ABC to take in 1978?
president of NBC's entertainment division
The Roots miniseries was based on a novel by what author?
Alex Haley
Who was named the president of ABC News in 1977?
Roone Arledge
When was the newsmagazine 20/20 first created?
June 1978
What channel did ABC proposed to compete with cable news company CNN?
ABC Cable News
A strike by what entity resulted in a halt to production for network programs in the 2007-2008 season?
Writers Guild of America
Disney-ABC Television group merged with ABC Studios and what other entity in 2009?
ABC Entertainment
What year marked the lowest ratings for the drama Lost?
2010
When did the FCC begin imposing fin-syn rules?
1970
What ABC division handles domestic television distribution?
Disney–ABC Domestic Television
What were the first two stations to carry ABC's programming?
WABC-TV and WPVI-TV
When was ABC's first logo introduced?
1946
In what year was Supernanny canceled?
2011
What format is ABC's master feed transmitted in?
720p high definition
What was the only drama extended for a second season for the 2010-11 schedule?
Body of Proof
What soap operas did ABC cancel in 2011?
All My Children and One Life to Live
In 2013-14, NBC finished in first place in the 18-49 demographic for the first time since when?
2004
What two comedies were featured on ABC's new Wednesday comedy lineup?
The Middle and Modern Family
Who departed as president of Capital Cities/ABC in 1994?
Daniel Burke
When were the Financial Interest and Syndication Rules repealed?
1993
What radio station did ABC purchase in May 1960?
WLS
ABC debuted what sports program on April 29, 1961?
Wide World of Sports
What was the corporate entity American Broadcasting-Paramount Theatres renamed in 1965? 
American Broadcasting Companies
What percentage of prime-time TV viewership did the three big networks represent in 1980?
90%
What entity did ABC sell KXYZ to in 1983?
Infinity Broadcasting Corporation
Who succeeded Thomas Murphy as president in 1990?
Daniel B. Burke
What soap opera is currently featured in ABC's daytime programming?
General Hospital
What are the only states where ABC doesn't have a licensed affiliate?
New Jersey, Rhode Island and Delaware
What entity began producing television series for ABC in 1962?
ABC Circle Films
What studio does ABC own at 1500 Broadway in NYC?
Times Square Studios
What is ABC's traditional VOD service currently named?
ABC on Demand
When are recent episodes of ABC shows typically made available on VOD services?
the day after their original broadcast
In 2013, ABC's identity was revamped by what design agency?
LoyalKaspar
How many primary affiliates did ABC have in 1954?
14
ABC had secondary status on the existing stations in what Ohio town?
Youngstown
What was the Disneyland anthology series retitled in 1958?
Walt Disney Presents
What was the title of ABC's broadcast film program that debuted on Sundays in 1962?
ABC Sunday Night Movie
Leonard Goldenson announced a merger proposal with what company in December 1965?
ITT
In 1984 Thomas Murphy contacted Leonard Goldenson about merging ABC with what company?
Capital Cities Communications
When did the merger between ABC and Capital Cities gain federal approval?
September 5, 1985
Which sitcom ended its broadcast run for ABC in 1983?
Laverne & Shirley
What comedy block debuted in 1989 for ABC?
the "TGIF" block
New broadcast regulations from the FCC in 1968 allowed companies to own a maximum of how many radio stations?
seven radio stations
What kind of programs can be credited for ABC's success in the late 1950s?
westerns and detective series
What was the programming philosophy pioneered by ABC and Goldenson?
counterprogramming
What service did ABC launch in May 2013?
WATCH ABC
What broadcast group is the largest operator of ABC stations?
Sinclair Broadcast Group
What was the name for the imaging campaign ABC began in 2007?
Start Here
What are the two ABC affiliates for Tampa, Florida?
WFTS-TV and WWSB
What do we call the empire that Genghis Khan founded?
the Mongol Empire
Who did Genghis Khan assign as his successor?
Ögedei Khan
Where was Genghis Khan likely born?
Delüün Boldog
What was Temüjin' sister's name?
Temülen
Which of Temüjin's brothers took up the role of male leader of the family?
Begter
Who captured and held Temüjin prisoner around 1177?
the Tayichi'ud
What was used to from political alliances among the Mongolian tribal confederations?
arranged marriages
What was the tribe of the woman Temüjin married when he was around 16 years old?
the Onggirat
How many sons did Börte bear Genghis Khan after Jochi?
three
What is an anda?
sworn brother or blood brother
Who did Jamukha support that were not part of Temüjin's power base?
the traditional Mongolian aristocracy
What was the name of Temüjin's laws?
the Yassa code
To whom did Toghrul refuse to give his daughter in marriage, angering Temüjin?
Jochi
Who protected Jamukha after he escaped the conflict with Temüjin?
the Naimans
What did Temüjin offer Jamukha after the latter's defeat?
his friendship
From whom did Genghis Khan learn seige warfare?
the Chinese
By what year had Temüjin created a significant "Mongol" tribal alliance?
1206
What dynasty did Genghis Khan plan to attack after conquering Western Xia?
the Jin dynasty
Who took control of Qara Khitai after fleeing Temüjin's Mongol Empire?
Kuchlug
What strategy did Jebe's army use against Kuchlug and his supporters?
inciting internal revolt
Who was the leader of the Khwarezmian dynasty in the early 1200s?
Shah Ala ad-Din Muhammad
What mountain range did Genghis Khan cross to enter the Khwarezmian Empire?
Tien Shan
What feature of the Shah's army enable the weary Mongol forces easy early victories?
fragmentation
What was the capital of Khwarezmia before the Mongol invasion?
Samarkand
What did the Mongols shield themselves with while attacking Samarkand?
captured enemies
How did the leaders of the city of Bukhara respond to the Mongol attack?
opened the gates
What year did the Khwarezmian Empire fall to Genghis Khan?
1220
Which Mongol leader completed the conquest of Kievan Rus'?
Batu
In which year did Genghis Khan strike against the Tanguts?
1226
What was the name of the Tangut capital?
Ning Hia
The paternity of which of Genghis Khan's sons was disputed?
Jochi
Which pair of Genghis Khan's sons were most rivalrous?
Chagatai and Jochi
Jochi's death occurred in what year?
1226
Genghis Khan was in the process of taking what capital city when he died?
Yinchuan
What was Genghis Khan's tribes burial custom?
without markings
What is the Mongolian name for the original place of the Genghis Khan mausoleum?
Edsen Khoroo
On which date was Genghis Khan's palace rediscovered by archeaologists?
October 6, 2004
Who created the code that governed military and civilian conduct in the Mongol Empire?
Genghis Khan
What perk did religious leaders, teachers, and doctors get in the Mongol Empire?
tax exemptions
Which woman took a leadership role in the Mongol Empire while succession was being determined?
Töregene Khatun
Which Khitan prince became an important administrator in the Mongol Empire?
Chu'Tsai
Who among Genghis Khan's subjects shared similar privileges to his close family members'?
his generals
What would Mongol armies divert in order to cut off the resources of cities they were attacking?
rivers
What sea bordered Genghis Khan's empire to the east when he died?
Sea of Japan
To which trading route did Genghis Khan bring a stable political climate?
the Silk Road
What recent decade saw brightening of the perception of Genghis Khan in Mongolia?
1990s
What is the name of contemporary Mongolian currency?
tögrög
What is the Mongolian name of the first Mongolian laws codified in writing?
Ikh Zasag
Where in China is Genghis Khan most favorably viewed today?
Inner Mongolia region
Which Middle Eastern nation in particular views Genghis Khan as a contemptible perpetrator of genocide?
Iran
Which descendant of Genghis Khan sacked Baghdad?
Hulagu Khan
Which descendants of Genghis Khan tried to dissociate themselves from the Mongol massacres in the Middle East?
Mughal emperors
Which Mongolian word meaning wide-spreading may have contributed to the appellation Genghis?
tenggis
What is the Mongolian spelling of Genghis Khan?
Chinggis Khaan
What word is the word pharmacy taken from?
its root word pharma
What type of professionals are pharmacists?
healthcare professionals
Who oversees a Pharmacy Technician in the UK?
other senior pharmacy technicians
What is Pedanius Dioscorides known for?
writing a five volume book in his native Greek
How were the men who did tasks like those of today's pharmacists viewed in Japan in the Asuka and Nara periods?
highly respected
Developments in which scientists influenced the creation of pharmacology in medieval Islam?
botany and chemistry
How far does one pharmacy in Croatia date back to?
1317
What is the dispensary subject to in a majority of countries?
pharmacy legislation
Where do pharmacists acquire more preparation following pharmacy school?
a pharmacy practice residency
Where are many hospital pharmacies located?
within the premises of the hospital
What do the services given by pharmacists provide?
optimizes the use of medication and promotes health, wellness, and disease prevention
What is one example of what a clinical pharmacist's duties entail?
creating a comprehensive drug therapy plan for patient-specific problems
What type of authority are ambulatory care pharmacists given in the U.S. federal health care system?
full independent prescribing authority
What is consultant pharmacy mainly concerned with?
medication regimen review
When did internet pharmacies begin to come into being?
about the year 2000
Why might customers order from internet pharmacies?
to avoid the "inconvenience" of visiting a doctor or to obtain medications which their doctors were unwilling to prescribe
What is one problem with internet pharmacies?
the ease with which people, youth in particular, can obtain controlled substances
What is a reason for the movement to legalize importing medicines from other countries?
to reduce consumer costs
What two things does pharmacy informatics bring together?
pharmacy practice science and applied information science
What is the fastest growing area in the pharmaceutical industry?
specialty pharmacies
How are pharmacists regulated in most jurisdictions?
separately from physicians
What is another country that permits physicians to give out drugs from within their practice?
Austria
Why is majority rule used?
the high risk of a conflict of interest and/or the avoidance of absolute powers
What will be the importance of the pharmacist in coming decades?
expected to become more integral within the health care system
Which provinces in Canada limit the rights of pharmacists in prescribing?
Alberta and British Columbia
What are the two symbols that signify pharmacy in English-speaking countries?
the mortar and pestle and the ℞ (recipere) character
What is the immune system?
a system of many biological structures and processes within an organism that protects against disease
How do pathogens avoid detection?
Pathogens can rapidly evolve and adapt
What can result from disorders of the immune system?
autoimmune diseases, inflammatory diseases and cancer
What even is the earliest known reference to immunity?
plague of Athens in 430 BC
What is another name for an immune system's improved response?
immunological memory
The adaptive immune system must distinguish between what types of molecules?
self and non-self
What part of the innate immune system identifies microbes and triggers immune response?
pattern recognition receptors
What is a mechanical barrier in insects that protects the insect?
exoskeleton
What are the anitmicrobial peptides secreted by the skin called?
β-defensins
What serves as a biological barrier by competing for space and food in the GI tract?
commensal flora
What is one of the first responses the immune system has to infection?
Inflammation
What type of cells engulf or eat pathogens and foreign particles?
phagocytes
What are two types of phagocytes that travel through the body to find invading pathogens?
Neutrophils and macrophages
What are white blood cells known as?
Leukocytes
What are the phagocytes that are located in tissues in contact with the external environment called?
Dendritic cells
Natural killer cells recognize cells that should be targeted by a condition known as what?
missing self
In what types of organisms did the adaptive immune system first evolve?
vertebrates
What are the two major subtypes of T cells?
killer T cell and the helper T cell
What kind of T cells kill cells that are infected with pathogens?
Killer T cells
What co-receptor recruits molecules inside the T cell that are responsible for cell activation?
CD4 co-receptor
Gamma delta T cells share the characteristics of what other types of T cells?
helper T cells, cytotoxic T cells and NK cells
What kind of cell identifies pathogens when the antibodies on its surface complex with a specific foreign antigen?
B cell
When B cells and T cells begin to replicate, what do some of their offspring cells become?
long-lived memory cells
Newborns are vulnerable to infection because they have no previous exposure to what?
microbes
Hormones can alter the sensitivity of the immune system, so they can be referred to as what?
immunomodulators
What is a protein that is closely intertwined with circadian rhythms?
NFIL3
What is partially responsible for weakened immune response in older individuals?
decline in hormone levels with age
What type of immune cells help to destroy abnormal cells in tumors?
killer T cells
Plants lack what kind of immune cells?
phagocytic cells
What kind of disorders are the result of an overactive immune response?
autoimmune disorders
What kind of disorders occur when part of the immune system isn't active?
Immunodeficiencies
By what process can active immunity be generated in an artificial manner?
vaccination
Bacteria often secrete what kind of proteins to ingest a physical barrier?
enzymes
Who formulated the idea of clonal selection theory of immunity?
Frank Burnet
What are the most powerful class of anti-inflammatory drugs?
Glucocorticoids
What are examples of differentiated effector cells that peak during wake periods?
cytotoxic natural killer cells and CTLs (cytotoxic T lymphocytes)
What does a T cell extend when it encounters a foreign pathogen?
a vitamin D receptor
What are the proteins that organisms use to identify molecules associated with pathogens?
Pattern recognition receptors
What molecules of the adaptive immune system only exist in jawed vertebrates?
immunoglobulins and T cell receptors
Invertebrates do not generate what type of cells that are a part of the vertebrate adaptive immune system?
lymphocytes
What were the two main theories of immunity at the end of the 19th century?
"cellular" and "humoral" theories of immunity
Tumors that are able to evade the body's immune response can become what?
cancers
What is the name for a response of the immune system that damages the body's native tissues?
Hypersensitivity
What is the process by which pathogens evade the immune system by hiding inside the host cells called?
intracellular pathogenesis
What is the process by which the adaptive immune system is evaded by the chainging of non-essential epitopes called?
antigenic variation
What is the process by which the immune system identifies tumors called?
immune surveillance
At what size and larger can drugs elicit a neutralizing immune response?
>500 Da
Drop in the blood levels of cortisol and epinephrine results in increase levels of what hormones?
leptin, pituitary growth hormone, and prolactin
Complement proteins bind to what kind of molecules on the surface of microbes in order to elicit an immune response?
carbohydrates
What is it called when people in society rebel against laws they think are unfair?
Civil disobedience
Sophocles demonstrated civil disobedience in a play that was called?
Antigone
After the Peterloo massacre what poet wrote The Massacre of Anarchy?
Percy Shelley
Vice President Agnew describes Civil disobedience in what activities?
muggers, arsonists, draft evaders, campaign hecklers, campus militants, anti-war demonstrators, juvenile delinquents and political assassins
Who wrote that it is difficult to produce an all inclusive definition of civil disobedience?
LeGrande
If the head of government refuses to enforce a decision of the highest court what terminology could be used?
constitutional impasse
What author argues pitching the conscience versus the collective?
Thoreau
Some theories argue that civil disobedience is justified in regard to?
governmental entities
If law breaking is not done in a public manor it is not considered what term?
civil disobedience
Cristian Bay's encyclopedia concludes that civil disobedience does not only include what behavior?
non-violence
What is it called when there is an active attempt to overthrow a government or belief system?
Revolutionary civil disobedience
When did the earliest examples of civil disobedience as a whole occur?
during the Roman Empire
Civil disobedients have chosen many different kinds of what type of behaviors?
illegal
What was Joseph Haas arrested for?
sending an email to the Lebanon, New Hampshire city councilors
Boycotting, refusing to pay taxes, sit ins, and draft dodging all make what harder?
system to function
What type of government investigations apply to civil disobedience?
criminal investigations
What do some civil disobedient people feel the need to acknowledge.
accept punishment
What is an important personal decision for civil disobedients?
whether or not to plead guilty
Where in Las Vegas did a famous protest take place?
Camp Mercury nuclear test site
Why do some people chose to go to jail for their disobedience?
a way of continuing their protest
What type of punishment is sometimes offered to civil disobedients?
plea bargain
What way do some people perform civil disobedience in a constructive way?
defiant speech
What is the primary goal of pleading not guilty when arrested for Civil Disobedience?
acquittal and avoid imprisonment
What needs to be avoided with civil disobedience?
general disobedience
What is violating a law which is not the goal of the protest called?
Indirect civil disobedience
What is the main goal of criminal punishment of civil disobedients?
incapacitation
What is the process of constructing a building or infrastructure?
Construction
Who normally manages a construction job?
An architect
What are the three sectors of construction?
buildings, infrastructure and industrial
What is Engineering News-Record?
a trade magazine for the construction industry
What are the three construction subsectors?
building construction, heavy and civil engineering construction, and specialty trade contractors
What is the process of adding structure to real property or construction of buildings?
Building construction
Residential construction practices, technologies, and resources must conform to what?
local building authority regulations and codes of practice
New techniques of building construction are being researched, made possible by advances in what?
3D printing technology
A formal design team may be assembled to do what?
plan the physical proceedings, and to integrate those proceedings with the other parts
The modern trend in design is toward integration of what?
previously separated specialties
What project structures assist the owner in integration?
design-build, partnering and construction management
What can construction projects suffer from?
preventable financial problems
Who are likely participants in creating an overall plan for the financial management of the building construction project?
Mortgage bankers, accountants, and cost engineers
What must a project adhere to?
zoning and building code requirements
What is a complex net of contracts and other legal obligations?
A construction project
A growing number of new forms of procurement involves what?
relationship contracting where the emphasis is on a co-operative relationship
In the most common construction procurement, who acts as the project coordinator?
the architect or engineer
Who produces a list of requirements for a project, giving an overall view of the project's goals?
The owner
Who is required to verify and have existing utility lines marked?
contractors
What is the annual construction industry revenue in 2014?
$960 billion
What is the average construction salary in the Middle East?
£42,090
What is one of the most dangerous occupations in the world?
Construction
Along with non-governmental and nonstate schools, what is another name for private schools?
independent
What is the yearly cost of some notable prep schools in New England?
$45,000
What is another term for year 12 of education?
lower sixth
What religion's schools does the term 'parochial schools' generally refer to?
Roman Catholic
What power is available to Australian private schools but generally not present in public schools?
expulsion
Along with the Anglican Church and Uniting Church, what religious denomination operates private schools in Australia?
Presbyterian
What article of the Grundgesetz grants the right to make private schools?
7
What is the German term for segregating students based on their parents' wealth?
Sonderungsverbot
What are private secondary schools in Germany called?
Ergänzungsschulen
What is the term for an Indian private school?
independent
Along with trusts, what other non-profits are allowed to run schools in India?
societies
What is the Irish term for private schools?
scoil phríobháideach
In what year did Malaysia receive its independence?
1957
What is a term for schools that receive government assistance?
aided
How many private schools existed in New Zealand in April 2014?
88
What denomination is the Diocesan School for Girls in Auckland affiliated with?
Anglican
What percentage of Filipino primary school students are in private schools?
7.5
What is the name of the scheme that provides tuition and fee assistance to students due to excess enrollment?
Education Service Contracting
What South African law recognized two types of schools?
South African Schools Act
After apartheid, what types of schools are referred to as "Model C" schools?
government schools formerly reserved for white children
As of 2008, about what percentage of Swedish students attended private schools?
10
Up to what age do students in the United Kingdom attend preparatory schools?
13
What court case desegregated schools in the United States?
Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka
Along with tuition, scholarships, vouchers, donations and grants, where does funding for private schools come from?
endowments
What was the first US state to have compulsory education?
Massachusetts
About how much did a New York City day school cost annually in 2012?
$40,000
What individual is the school named after?
John Harvard
What is the worlds largest academic and private library system?
Harvard Library
What is the major US city that the is the university located?
Boston metropolitan area
In what year was the school formed?
1636
Ministers of what faith were trained by the university in early years?
Puritan ministers
In what year did Harvard President Joseph Willard die?
1804
in 1846 who's natural history lectures were acclaimed in New York and Harvard?
Louis Agassiz
What president eliminated the Christian position in the curriculum?
Charles W. Eliot
Who lead the school back to leading research institution in 2oth century?
James Bryant Conant
What was the ratio of men to women at Harvard/Radcliffe?
about four men attending Harvard College for every woman studying at Radcliffe
How far from state house in downtown Boston is Harvard Yard?
3 miles
Where is Harvard stadium located?
Allston
How much more land does the school own in Allston than Cambridge?
approximately fifty percent
What is the total number of professors, instructors, and lecturers at Harvard?
2,400
What was the Harvard endowment total in 2011?
$32 billion
When was the divestment from South Africa movement? 
late 1980s
What is the applicant admission rate for class of 2019?
accepted 5.3% of applicants
Between 1978 an d2008 four year full time undergraduate students were required to complete how many classes outside of their concentration?
core curriculum of seven classes
What is the duration of Harvard Academic year?
beginning in early September and ending in mid-May
What is tuition for 2012 - 13 year at Harvard? 
$38,000
What is the center library in the Harvard library system?
Widener Library
How many museums comprise Harvard Art Museums?
three museums.
Starting in what year has Harvard topped the Academic Rankings of World Universities?
2003
How many intercollegiate sports does Harvard compete in NCAA division I
42
What was the first year that Yale and Harvard played football?
1875
What is the name of Harvard's basketball facility?
Lavietes Pavilion
Harvard - Yale Regatta predates "The Game" by how many years?
23 years
What UN secretary went to Harvard?
General Ban Ki-moon
What tv host and writer went to Harvard?
Conan O'Brien
What Fields Medal winning Mathematician is a faculty member at Harvard?
Shing-Tung Yau
Which Florida city has the biggest population?
Jacksonville
What river runs alongside Jacksonville?
St. Johns
What is the ranking of the military forces in Jacksonville?
third largest
The area where Jacksonville currently sits has been inhabited for how many years?
thousands
Who mapped the St. Johns River in 1562?
Jean Ribault
After what event did the Spanish concede Florida to Britain?
French and Indian War
Supplies from Jacksonville were in support of which faction in the Civil War?
Confederate
During which period did Jacksonville become a popular destination for the rich?
Gilded Age
What caused the spread of the Jacksonville fire in 1901?
Spanish moss
Who was drawn to Jacksonville in the 1910s?
New York–based filmmakers
What drove residents to quieter suburban housing?
highways
What was the cause for the issues with city funding?
Much of the city's tax base dissipated
How were most city officials elected in the 1960s?
old boy network
What was the result of the 1967 referendum?
voters approved the plan
What is the land area of Jacksonville?
874.3 square miles
What distinction does the Bank of America Tower hold?
tallest building in Downtown Jacksonville
What type of climate does Jacksonville have?
subtropical
What is Jacksonville's hottest recorded temperature?
104 °F
What storm had the most significant impact on Jacksonville?
Hurricane Dora
What ethnic group located in Jacksonville is ranked tenth largest?
Arab
What portion of households in Jacksonville have only one person?
29.7%
What percentage of global assets does the richest 1% of people have?
40%
How many Americans are richer than more than half of all citizens?
400
What philosophy of thought  addresses wealth inequality?
Neoclassical economics
What pushes businesses to increase pressures on workers?
reduce costs and maximize profits
What is controled by the market and economy?
workers wages
What has the tendency to increase wages in a field or job position?
Competition amongst workers
What increases with the increase of income inequality?
entrepreneurship rates
What is it called when the tax rate and base amount increase simultaneously?
progressive tax
What is key to getting the skills needed for high demand jobs?
access to education
What did Standard & Poor recommend to speed economy recovery?
increasing access to education
When did the high school education movement occur?
1910–1940
What types of organizations are on a decline in the US which adversely effects economic mobility?
unions
What country has low income inequality and high presence of unions?
Scandinavia
What effect does trade with poorer countries have on the workers in richer countries?
reduced wages
What is the income inequality gap between genders in Botswana?
53%
What types of programs help to redistribute wealth?
social welfare
During what time period did income inequality decrease in the United States?
1910 to 1940
What process attributes new wealth to those that already have it?
Wealth concentration
What forces should serve as a brake on wealth concentration?
market
Higher rates of health and social problems are just two of examples of effects from what?
inequality
What year did Robert J. Shiller win an Economics Nobel prize?
2013
What nationality are researchers Richard G. Wilkinson and Kate Pickett?
British
What did higher material living standards lead to for most of human history?
better health and longer lives
What characteristic in recent years has been strongly tied with health in developed countries?
income inequality
What has crime rate been show to be correlated with in a society?
inequality
What does the utilitarian principle seek for the greatest number of people?
the greatest good
What do conservative researchers fell should be a measure of inequality?
consumption
What is Raghuram Rajan's career?
economist
What is negatively correlated to the duration of economic growth?
inequality in wealth and income
What do David Castlles-Quintana and Vicente Royuela do for a living?
economists
What did Stiglitz present in 2009 regarding global inequality?
evidence
When did Galor and Zeria show new information about inequality?
1993
What does high levels of inequality do to growth in poor countries?
reduce
What have studies on income inequality sometimes found evidence confirming?
Kuznets curve hypothesis
When were theories developed suggesting inequality may have some positive effect on economic development?
the 1970s
What needs to be made to ensure poorer members of society can participate in economic growth?
special efforts
What is held outside the formal legal ownership registration system in many developing countries?
much land and housing
What do a number of researchers think a shortage of is caused in part by income inequality?
a shortage of affordable housing
How are the certain costs which are difficult to avoid shared?
by everyone
When economic inequality is smaller, more waste and pollution is?
created
What is the vast disparities in wealth attributed to by Socialists?
private ownership of the means of production
Who argues that the government redistributes wealth by force?
Robert Nozick
What does the capabilities approach look at poverty as a form of?
capability deprivation
What happens when a person's capabilities aer lowered, as it relates to their income?
deprived of earning as much
Who is the producer of Doctor Who?
BBC
In what years did Doctor Who originally show on TV?
1963 to 1989
How many actors have played Doctor Who?
Twelve
What planet is Doctor Who from?
Gallifrey
How often does Doctor Who travel by himself?
rarely
What was the date of the very first episode of Doctor Who?
23 November 1963
How many seasons did the BBC produce Doctor Who?
26
What was the BBC hoping that an independent production firm would do for Doctor Who?
relaunch the show
What was the name of the first episode of the new Doctor Who series?
Rose
What years did the original Doctor Who series run?
1963–1989
When did the BBC rebroadcast the first episode of Doctor Who?
30 November 1963
What popular phrase is associated with the Doctor Who series?
Hiding behind (or 'watching from behind') the sofa
Which show was voted most violent of the BBC shows in a 1972 survey?
Doctor Who
What image has become linked to Doctor Who?
the TARDIS
How many seasons did the original Doctor Who run?
26
In what year did the serial format change for the Doctor Who series?
2005
How many Doctor Who episodes have been shown, in total?
826
Who were the first two actors that played Doctor Who?
William Hartnell and Patrick Troughton
How did other countries have copies of the show?
bought prints for broadcast
Who has released official reconstructions of Doctor Who episodes?
the BBC
What term is used to explain a change in the appearance of Doctor Who?
regeneration
How many times can a Time Lord regenerate?
12
Who played the War Doctor?
John Hurt
What Doctor was first referred to as "his secret"?
the War Doctor
Which three doctors were in The Sirens of Time?
Peter Davison, Colin Baker and Sylvester McCoy
In what episode does the "Fall of the Eleventh" happen?
The Time of the Doctor
What is the name of the first Doctor Who serial?
An Unearthly Child
What type of creature is usually Doctor Who's companion?
a human
Since 2005, what is the gender of Doctor Who's primary traveling companion?
female
Who was the executive producer of the 2005 Doctor Who revival series?
Russell T Davies
Who are the oldest villains from the Doctor Who series? 
The Dalek race
Who is the archenemy of Doctor Who?
The Master
Who first played the Master in the 2007 series?
Derek Jacobi
Who composed the original Doctor Who theme?
Ron Grainer
Who recorded the theme played for season 18?
Peter Howell
What was the name of the 2007 Christmas special?
Voyage of the Damned
Who recorded a version of the Doctor Who theme with spoken lyrics in the 1970's?
Jon Pertwee
Who was the most frequent musical contributor to Doctor Who in the first 15 years of the show?
Dudley Simpson
Who has performed all the Doctor Who music since the 2005 Christmas special?
the BBC National Orchestra of Wales
How many Doctor Who soundtracks have been released since 2005?
Six
What logo was modified and reused for the 50th Anniversary special?
The original logo
The first episode of Doctor Who premiered the day after what famous event in history?
the assassination of John F. Kennedy
When was Doctor Who viewing at its highest level?
During the ITV network strike of 1979
What station did the 20th anniversary special show before being shown on BBC?
PBS
Which Australian TV station has run Doctor Who since 1965?
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC)
What year did TVOntario start showing Doctor Who episodes?
1976
Who taped video intros for Doctor Who shows in Canada, that included a trivia question?
Christopher Eccleston
What countries are the Doctor Who DVDs available to purchase?
the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada and the United States
Who played Doctor Who on stage in the 70's?
Trevor Martin
What Doctor Who spin-off series was commissioned by the BBC?
Torchwood
Who was the star of The Sarah Jane Adventures?
Elisabeth Sladen
What special was created for the show's 30th anniversary?
Dimensions in Time
What was the name of the Doctor Who special created for Comic Relief?
Doctor Who and the Curse of Fatal Death
What Star Trek episode has a nod to Doctor Who?
The Neutral Zone
What story was the first Doctor Who audio release based on?
The Chase
Which Doctors were highlighted on the first audio releases on CD?
the Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Doctors
In what year did original fiction featuring Doctor Who appear?
1991
When was Doctor Who created?
the early 1960s
When did Doctor Who win an award for Best Drama Series?
2006
Where is Doctor Who the record holder for most successful science fiction series of all time?
Guinness World Records
Which season of Doctor Who won an award for Best Writing in a Children's Serial?
Season 11
What was the most revered award that Doctor Who has won?
Best Drama Series
How many times has Doctor Who won the Hugo for Best Dramatic Presentation?
six
Which comedian did a parody where a Dalek appears?
Spike Milligan
What kind of university is the University of Chicago?
a private research university
University of Chicago scholars played a major part in what development?
various academic disciplines
What society founded the University of Chicago?
the American Baptist Education Society
Who donated property to the University of Chicago?
Marshall Field
In 1890, who did the university decide to team up with?
several regional colleges and universities
Who was the university's 5th president?
Robert Maynard Hutchins
In what year did the university first see a drop in applications?
1950s
In what year did student decide to occupy the president's office?
1962
When did the university decide to start multimillion-dollar expansion projects?
mid-2000s
What are the first buildings the university built knows as today?
the Main Quadrangles
During what decade did the campus start to look more modern?
the 1940s
What other locations can the Booth School of Business be found?
Singapore, London, and the downtown Streeterville neighborhood of Chicago
Who runs the University of Chicago?
a board of trustees
Who is the university accredited by?
The Higher Learning Commission
How many academic majors does the university grant in total?
50
What is the name of the university's core curriculum?
the Common Core
What is the name of the private day school for K-12 students the university runs?
University of Chicago Laboratory Schools
The University of Chicago Library system has how many libraries in total?
six
How many research institutes does the university run on campus?
12
What role in economics did the university play a major part in?
shaping ideas about the free market
Since what year did the university offer a doctorate in music composition?
1933
In the fall quarter of 2014, how many students signed up for the college?
5,792
The Maroons are apart of what association?
the University Athletic Association
Roughly how many clubs are ran at the university?
over 400
Who makes up the Student Government?
graduate and undergraduate students
How many fraternities are apart of the university?
fifteen
In what month is the university's scavenger hunt?
May
What Microsoft CEO is also an alumni of the University of Chicago?
Satya Nadella
Who is the founder of modern community organizing?
Saul Alinsky
What alumni wrote "The Closing of the American Mind"?
Allan Bloom
What minimalist composer is also a university graduate?
Philip Glass
What astronomers is also a university alumni member?
Carl Sagan
What Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences winner is also a university alumni member?
Milton Friedman
What anthropologists are also university alumni members?
David Graeber and Donald Johanson
Who calculated the speed of light?
A. A. Michelson
What Egyptologist was also apart of the university's faculty?
James Henry Breasted
Who is the governor of India's central bank?
Raghuram Rajan
What is the Chinese name for the Yuan dynasty?
Yuán Cháo
What non-Chinese empire did the Yuan dynasty succeed?
Mongol Empire
When did Khan establish the Great Yuan?
1271
Which tribes did Genghis Khan unite?
Mongol and Turkic tribes
Who did the Han Chinese want to help the Mongols fight?
the Jin
What ethnicity was Shi Tianze?
Han Chinese
Who led a Mongol attack on the Song dynasty?
Möngke Khan
Who was Kaidu's grandfather?
Ogedei
What did Kublai's government have to balance between?
preserving Mongol interests in China and satisfying the demands of his Chinese subjects
Where had the Mongol capital been before Kublai moved it?
Karakorum
What kinds of growth did Kublai encourage?
commercial, scientific, and cultural
Who did Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou flee with?
the Song Emperor
Where did Kublai build his administration's strength?
northern China
When was Kublai's administration running out of money?
after 1279
When was Dali conquered by the Yuan?
1253
Who was the 4th to rule the Yuan dynasty?
Buyantu Khan
Who was Ayurbarwada's son?
Gegeen Khan
Where did Yesun Temur die?
Shangdu
What was Tugh Temur known for?
his cultural contribution
When did Tugh Temur die?
1332
What problems did the Yuan dynasty have near its end?
struggle, famine, and bitterness
When did the Yuan people suffer a series of natural disasters?
From the late 1340s onwards
What encouraged trade under the Yuan?
The political unity of China and much of central Asia
What type of musical instruments did the Yuan bring to China?
Western
Who was the first known European to visit China and return?
Marco Polo
What astronomer worked for Kublai?
Guo Shoujing
The Yuan was the first time all of China was ruled by whom?
non-native Chinese people
What cultures were part of Kublai's administration?
Han Chinese, Khitans, Jurchens, Mongols, and Tibetan Buddhists
Who had military control during the Yuan?
the Privy Council
When was Phags-pa script invented?
1269
By what year was selling children into slavery common among the Mongols?
1290
What type of arts flourished in the Yuan?
painting, mathematics, calligraphy, poetry, and theater
Which khanates had converted to Islam?
western
When was Zhu Shijie born?
1249
What did Guo Shoujing do for calendars?
applied mathematics to the construction of calendars
Who were otachi?
non-Mongol physicians
How many schools of medicine were recognized in China?
four
What was huihui?
Muslim medicine
How did the Mongols acquire Chinese printing technology?
through Kingdom of Qocho and Tibetan intermediaries
What was the Yuan's paper money called?
chao
What Mongolian system did Kublai's government compromise with?
patrimonial feudalism
Who did the Mongols bring to China as administrators?
Central Asian Muslims
What Yuan policies did Muslims dislike?
restricting Halal slaughter and other Islamic practices like circumcision
Who thought that the Yuan's social class system shouldn't be called social classes?
Frederick W. Mote
Which part of China had people ranked higher in the class system?
Northern
Who did the Mongols give control of Korea?
Uighurs
What region of China is Hebei part of?
The Central Region
Where is Kenya located?
in Africa
What type of climate does Kenya have?
a warm and humid tropical climate on its Indian Ocean coastline
How long has the African Great Lakes region been inhabited?
Lower Paleolithic period
What is the Republic of Kenya named after?
Mount Kenya
Ludwig Krapf recorded the name was what?
both Kenia and Kegnia
What are the biggest game animals of Kenya called?
The "Big Five"
How long ago did primates inhabit Kenya?
more than 20 million years ago
Who build the major port city in Kenya?
The Swahili
Where do many merchants and explorers go?
the Kenyan Coast
When was the outbreak of World War I?
August 1914
Where were the Kikuyu people located?
The central highlands
When was Waruhiu Itote captured?
15 January 1954
When was the first direct elections for native Kenyans?
1957
What is the mlolongo system?
where voters were supposed to line up behind their favoured candidates instead of a secret ballot
What kind of government does Kenya have?
a presidential representative democratic republic
Where does Kenya rang on the CPI scale?
low
What party is President Kibaki part of?
Party of National Unity
What did the government and civil society organisations start after the riots?
programmes to avoid similar disasters in the future
When did Kibaki and Odinga sing an agreement on the formation of government?
28 February 2008
What will the Prime Minister have power over?
PM will have power and authority to co-ordinate and supervise the functions of the Government
What constitutional change was considered?
eliminate the position of Prime Minister and simultaneously reduce the powers of the President
When did President Uhuru Kenyatta sign a Security Law Amendment Bill?
December 2014
What was the result of the 2007 election? 
h International Criminal Court trial dates in 2013 for both President Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto
What kind of missions are the armed forces regularly deployed for?
in peacekeeping missions around the world
What other forces were tainted by corruption allegations?
Kenya’s armed forces
What is Kenya's HDI?
0.519, ranked 145 out of 186 in the world
What was East and Central Africa's economy boosted by?
rapid expansion in telecommunication and financial activity
How much does the services sector contribute to GDP?
61%
How much of the GDP was agriculture in 2005?
24%
What institution has helped farmers grow new pigeon pea varieties?
International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT)
Where is the most successful agricultural prodcution regions?
the fertile highlands
What country is the most industrially developed country in the African Great Lakes Region?
Kenya
What has given a boost to manufacturing in recent years?
Kenya's inclusion among the beneficiaries of the US Government's African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA)
Where does the largest part of Kenya's power come from?
hydroelectric stations at dams
Where does Kenya have deposits of oil?
in Turkana
How much is China's investment in Kenya?
$474 million
What did Kenya reveil in 2030?
Vision 2030
Where are most working children working?
in agriculture
What language is spoken in Kenya?
Kenya's various ethnic groups typically speak their mother tongues within their own communities
What is the main religion in Kenya?
Christian
How many Kenyans are non-religious?
2.4%
Who treats the majority of the population medically?
Nurses
What directly correlates with the country's economic performance and wealth distribution?
Diseases of poverty
Who introduced the first system of education?
British colonists.
What was the Presidential Working Party on the Second University commissioned to do?
look at both the possibilities of setting up a second university in Kenya as well as the reforming of the entire education system
When was the 8-4-4 system launched?
January 1985
What age does basic education start?
age six years
What is Kenya's literacy rate?
85%
Who leads the National and Public Library Servies?
the Kenya National Library Service
What sports are Kenyans active in?
cricket, rallying, football, rugby union and boxing
How many gold medals did Kenya win during the Beijing Olympics?
six gold
What sport has Kenyan women been a dominate force?
women's volleyball within Africa
What is Kenya the home of?
the world famous Safari Rally
How many meals a day do normal Kenyans eat?
three meals in a day
What organization is the IPCC a part of?
the United Nations
Who is the chair of the IPCC?
Hoesung Lee
Who is on the IPCC Panel?
representatives appointed by governments and organizations
When was the IPCC Trust Fund founded?
1989
What does the IPCC not do?
does not carry out research nor does it monitor climate related data
How many coordinating lead authors does an IPCC report chapter have?
two
What does the WG I Summary for Policymakers report say human activities are doing to greenhouse gases?
substantially increasing the atmospheric concentrations
When was the joint statement on climate change issued?
2001
Which IPCC author criticized the TAR?
Richard Lindzen
How does the IPCC prepare Special Reports?
the same procedures as for IPCC Assessment Reports
What other activities does the UNFCCC require the IPCC to run?
the Data Distribution Centre and the National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Programme
What did the IPCC say was mistaken?
the date
What was Robert Watson's role in the IPCC?
IPCC chairman
When was the paper published that the "Millennial Northern Hemisphere temperature reconstruction" graph was based on?
1999
What range of years was the current warming compared to?
between 1000 and 1900
Who was the chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce?
Rep. Joe Barton
When was the IPCC Third Assessment Report published?
2001
When was a study published confirming the 2001 IPCC projections?
1 February 2007
What danger did the IPCC understate?
projected rises in sea levels
What role did Michael Oppenheimer have in the IPCC's reports?
coordinating lead author of the Fifth Assessment Report
What has successfully dealt with ozone depletion?
the Montreal Protocol
Who said people involved in the ozone situation had "a better understanding of scientific ignorance and uncertainties"?
Sheldon Ungar
What does the IPCC rely on for research?
other scientific bodies
How many scientists called to change the IPCC in Feb 2010?
five
What is the primary purpose of chloroplasts?
to conduct photosynthesis
How do chloroplasts reproduce?
pinch in two
Which organisms have chloroplasts?
plants and algae
What are chloroplasts descended from?
Cyanobacteria
What kind of cell did cynaobacteria enter long ago?
eukaryotic
What does 'plastid' mean?
almost the same thing as chloroplast
What chloroplast lineage is Cyanophora in?
glaucophyte
What kinds of pigments do rhodoplasts have?
chlorophyll a and phycobilins
What do red algal chloroplasts have that green chloroplasts don't?
phycobilisomes
What kind of membrane do primary chloroplasts have?
double
What kind of chloroplasts do Euglenophytes have?
chloroplasts derived from a green alga
What is another word for cryptophytes?
cryptomonads
What are Apicomplexans similar to?
helicosproidia
What do apicoplasts synthesize?
fatty acids, isopentenyl pyrophosphate, iron-sulfur clusters
What is only found in peridinin-type chloroplasts?
Peridinin
What lineage is Karlodinium in?
fucoxanthin dinophyte
Where did Dinophysis get its chloroplasts from?
a cryptophyte
What is another word for diatom?
heterokontophyte
Where do nucleomorph genes transfer to?
the dinophyte nucleus
Where did most chloroplasts come from?
first set of endosymbiotic events
What is chloroplast DNA abbreviated as?
ctDNA, or cpDNA
What seldom mutates?
The inverted repeat regions
How is chloroplast replication observed?
electron microscopy
What kind of gradients does cpDNA have?
A → G deamination
What is cpDNA's replication similar to?
bacteriophage T4
What shows us lost chloroplasts?
Endosymbiotic gene transfer
What is the status of most chloroplast genes in the mitochondrion?
nonfunctional pseudogenes
What is the chloroplast polypeptide synthesized on?
a ribosome
How are chloroplasts in land plants usually shaped?
lens-shaped
What is evidence chloroplasts descended from endosymbiotic cyanobacteria?
a double membrane
What is the chloroplast double membrane sometimes compared to?
the mitochondrial double membrane
What are more common in other plastids than chloroplasts?
Stromules
Where is the chloroplast peripheral reticulum usually found?
in the chloroplasts of C4 plants
What do chloroplasts use their ribosomes for?
synthesize a small fraction of their proteins
What is a single Plastoglobuli called?
plastoglobulus, sometimes spelled plastoglobule(s)
What are Plastoglobuli attached to?
either to a thylakoid or to another plastoglobulus attached to a thylakoid
Where are pyrenoids found?
The chloroplasts of some hornworts and algae
In what model do grana look like pancakes?
the helical thylakoid model
What does chlorophyll absorb?
light energy
How many types of thylakoids are there?
two
How many photosynthetic carotenoids are there?
about thirty
What are Phycobilins?
e a third group of pigments found in cyanobacteria
What do chloroplasts use to fix carbon dioxide into sugar?
an enzyme called rubisco
What are chloroplasts in mesophyll cells specialized for?
light reactions
What parts of plants have chloroplasts?
All green parts
Where do cacti have chloroplasts?
in the stems
When do chloroplasts spread out flat?
low-light conditions
How many major immune responses do plants have?
two
What molecules act as defense signals?
salicylic acid, jasmonic acid, nitric oxide and reactive oxygen species
What is the most important role of chloroplasts?
photosynthesis
What do chloroplasts do like mitochondria?
generate ATP energy
What usually takes reenergized electrons?
NADP+
What cycle starts with rubisco?
The Calvin cycle
What is an alternate way to make starch?
glucose monomers in the chloroplast can be linked together
What can rubisco do by mistake?
add O2 instead of CO2 to RuBP
Where do chloroplasts make amino acids?
in their stroma
What is sometimes used interchangeably with 'plastids'?
Chloroplasts
What happens if angiosperm shoots don't get enough light?
proplastids may develop into an etioplast stage before becoming chloroplasts
What can chloroplasts change into?
chromoplasts
What do FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 combine into?
filaments
What are PD rings?
plastid-dividing rings
What is necessary for chloroplasts to replicate?
Light
Why are chloroplasts of interest in GMO crops?
transgenes in these plastids cannot be disseminated by pollen
What is the only divisor besides 1 that a prime number can have?
itself
What is the name of the property that designates a number as being prime or not?
primality
How many prime numbers exist?
infinitely many
What is the name of the supposition that any number larger than 2 can be represented as the sum of two primes?
Goldbach's conjecture
 Any even number larger than what cannot be considered prime?
2
What number did early Greeks not regard as a true number?
1
Which theorem would be invalid if the number 1 were considered prime?
Euclid's fundamental theorem of arithmetic
What is the name of the Egyptian papyrus that suggests that they may have had knowledge of prime numbers?
the Rhind papyrus
In what year did Pierre de Fermat declare Fermat's little theorem?
In 1640
What is the most elemental way to test the primality of any integer n?
trial division
How many modern types of primality tests for general numbers n are there? 
two main classes
What is one straightforward case of a probabilistic test?
the Fermat primality test,
Of what form are Sophie Germain primes?
2p + 1
What is the name of one type of computing method that is used to find prime numbers?
distributed computing
What is name of the function used for the largest integer not greater than the number in question?
the floor function
What is another way to state the condition that infinitely many primes can exist only if a and q are coprime?
their greatest common divisor is one
What function is related to prime numbers?
The zeta function
When was the Riemann hypothesis proposed?
1859
Which conjecture holds that every even integer n greater than 2 can be expressed as a sum of two primes?
Goldbach's conjecture
What conjecture holds that there is an infinite amount of twin primes?
twin prime conjecture
Besides the study of prime numbers, what general theory was considered the official example of pure mathematics?
number theory
Assuming p is a prime other than 2 or 5, then, according to Fermat's theorem, what type of decimal will 1/p always be?
a recurring decimal
What is one type of public key cryptography algorithm?
RSA
What type of insect employs the use of prime numbers in its evolutionary strategy?
cicadas
What does the word prime generally suggest?
indecomposability
What is the name of an algebraic structure in which addition, subtraction and multiplication are defined?
commutative ring R
What theorem remains valid in unique factorization domains?
The fundamental theorem of arithmetic
In what theory is the idea of a number exchanged with that of an ideal?
In ring theory
What are the points of algebro-geometric objects?
Prime ideals
What happens to the norm when a number is multiplied by p?
norm gets smaller
Which French composer wrote ametrical music using prime numbers?
Olivier Messiaen
Where does the Rhine begin? 
Swiss canton
Where does the name Rhine derive from? 
Gaulish name Rēnos
What is the conventional method to measure the Rhine? 
Rhine-kilometers
Near Chur, which direction does the Rhine turn? 
north
The Rhine forms an inland delta into which lake?
Lake Constance
Where is the upper canal regulation of the Rhine?
Diepoldsau
How many bodies of water makes up Lake Constance? 
three
Why does the Rhine water fall into depths at the Rheinbrech?
greater density of cold water
After the Rhine emerges from Lake Constance, what direction does it flow?
westward
What is the first major city in the stream of the Rhine?
Basel
Which century was there a program to straighten the Rhine? 
19th Century
Where does the Rhine encounter it's tributary the Neckar? 
Germany
What flows between the Bingen and Bonn?
Middle Rhine
What contributed to water pollution in the Rhine? 
plants and factories
Besides viniculture, what's a dominant economic sector of the Middle Rhine?
tourism
What city has the biggest port in Germany?
Duisburg
What does the water flow of the Rhine merge with after flowing through Merwede?
Meuse
If two thirds of the Rhine flows through the Maas, where doe the other one third flow through?
Pannerdens Kanaal
What is the name for the smaller streams along the region northern Germany?
Rijn
What is the name of the Delta in the Netherlands? 
Rhine-Meuse
At Millingen aan de Rijn where the Rhine splits, what does it change it's name to?
Nederrijn at Angeren
What flood impacted the Meuse?
St. Elizabeth's
What do closed rivers serve as after they close?
drainage channels
What type of Delta is the Rhine-Meuse?
tidal delta
The present Mediterranean Sea descends from what sea?
Tethys sea
What rift system developed in the Alpine orogeny?
N–S
How did the Rhine extend watershed southward? 
stream capture
What period was 2.5 million years ago?
Ice Ages
When did the last glacial start?
74,000 (BP
What was the source of the Rhine in the last Ice Age?
glacier
When did Europe slowly begin to warm up from the last Ice Age?
22,000 years ago
When did tides and currents similar to our current system begin?
7500 yr ago
When was the Holocene?
11,700 years ago
When have humans started impacting the delta?
3000 yr BP
Where do the branches Waal and Nederrijn-Lek discharge to?
North Sea
When was the Rhine first discovered?
1st century BC
When did Augustus die?
AD 14
How many legions in five bases were along the Rhine by the Romans?
eight
When did Germanic tribes cross the Rhine to migrate?
5th century
When did the Rhine become borders with Francia?
6th century
What was the name of the time the Upper Rhine form a border between France and Germany?
Peace of Westphalia
When was Rhineland subject to the Treaty of Versailles?
end of World War I
Where is the Rhine Bridge?
Arnhem
What was the accepted length of the Rhine prior to 1932?
1,230 kilometres (764 miles)
When was the current parliament of Scotland convened?
Following a referendum in 1997
What remained an important issue in Scottish national identity for many years?
lack of a Parliament of Scotland
Which sea was oil discovered in?
North
Where was an elected assembly to be set up, under the terms of the Scotland Act of 1978?
Edinburgh
In the range between 1980 and 1990, what did demand for grow?
a Scottish Parliament
Where has the official home of the Scottish Parliament been since 2004?
Scottish Parliament Building
What was the building vacated twice to allow for?
meeting of the Church's General Assembly
Who did the Parliament rent additional buildings from?
City of Edinburgh Council
Who is elected to serve as the Presiding Officer at the beginning of each parliamentary session?
one MSP
Who is responsible for ensuring the Parliament works smoothly?
Presiding Officer
What is the seating arrangement of the debating chamber?
hemicycle
Where does the gold in the parliamentary mace come from?
Scottish rivers
Which month is the first in the year Parliament takes a two week vacation?
April
What day of the week does the Time for Reflection take place?
Wednesdays
Who decides who gets to speak in the chamber debates?
The Presiding Officer
What time do the MSPs normally decide on the motions and amendments from that day?
5 pm
What can often be predicted beforehand?
votes
When is the Members Debate held?
Immediately after Decision Time
Where is much of the work of the Scottish Parliament done?
committee
Who are committees comprised of?
a small number of MSPs
When are subject committees established?
beginning of each parliamentary session
What is set up to scrutinize private bills submitted by party outsiders?
type of committee
What act sets forth the functions of the Scottish Parliament?
Scotland Act 1998
Where are reserved matters stated in the Scotland Act?
Schedule 5
What is the name of matters outside the legislative ability of the Scottish Parliament?
Reserved
What may be presented to Parliament in various ways?
Bills
What is stage 1 in the life of a bill?
introductory
What is the final stage of a bill in the Scottish Parliament?
Stage 3
Who does the Presiding Officer submit the final bill to?
the Monarch
What party forms the Scottish Parliament?
hold the majority of seats
What day of the week are general elections held?
Thursday
What enables the Scottish Parliament to scrutinize the government?
Several procedures
What is set aside for question periods in the debating chamber?
Parliamentary time
What is the number of Constituency MSPs?
73
How are the total numbers of seats allocated to parties?
proportionally to the number of votes received
What does being an MSP share with the House of Commons?
a number of qualifications
When the election produced an SNP majority government, what was it the first occurrence of?
a party has commanded a parliamentary majority
The loss of Edinburgh Pentlands really disappointed whom the most?
the Conservatives
What consequence of establishing the Scottish Parliament applies to Scottish MPs sitting in the UK House of Commons?
able to vote on domestic legislation that applies only to England, Wales and Northern Ireland
What is an Islamic revival movement?
Islamism
What process do moderate and reformist Islamists work within the boundaries of?
democratic
What exists between fundamentalist Islamism and reformist Islamism?
major division
What type of role that Islamism seeks makes it a somewhat controversial concept?
political
What term do Islamists think should be applied to them?
Muslims
What did some of the Islamist groups supported by the West later become to be seen as?
dangerous enemies
Who is the President of Egypt?
Anwar Sadat
What type of interpretation of Islam does Salafism promote?
conservative
What type of movement is the Muslim Brotherhood?
Islamist
What was Iqbal studying in England and Germany?
law and philosophy
What did Iqbal fear would weaken the spiritual foundations of Islam and Muslim society?
secularism and secular nationalism
Who was an important figure in the twentieth-century Islamic revival in India?
Sayyid Abul Ala Maududi
What did Maududi believe Muslim society could not be Islamic in the absence of?
Sharia
When was the Muslim Brotherhood founded?
1928
Some elements of the Brotherhood directed what action against the government?
violence
What status has the Brotherhood obtained in the Islamic world?
one of the most influential movements
What was the defeat of the Arab troops at the hand of the Israeli troops during the Six-Day War?
quick and decisive
Mohammad Iqbal was what type of father to the State of Pakistan?
ideological
What Republic has maintained its control of Iran?
Islamic
Who deployed its army into Afghanistan in 1979?
the Soviet Union
What did the Gulf War inadvertently do in the early 1990s?
worked to radicalize the Islamist movement
Who did the attacks resonate most with?
conservative Muslims
Whose ideas became increasingly radical during his imprisonment? 
Qutb's
Who took up the path of violence?
Egyptian Islamic Jihad organization
What did al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya use to get its way?
violence
Until 1987, what stance did the Muslim Brotherhood in Palestine take towards Israel?
quiescent
What organization has continued to be a major disruptive force in Palestine?
Hamas
What type of regime ruled over Sudan for many years?
Islamist
When was al-Nimeiry overthrown?
1985
One of FIS' agenda items was to force women to start doing what?
staying home
Unsurprisingly, the mujahideen's victory against the Soviets in the 1980s failed to produce what?
justice and prosperity
Thousands of madrasahs spawned what organization?
The Taliban
When was the regime in Pakistan overthrown by General Zia-ul-Haq?
July 1977
What type of group is The Islamic State?
Wahhabi/Salafi jihadist extremist militant
When did ISIL pledge allegiance to al-Qaeda?
2004
What's the party's take on Muslim history?
a different view
What type of jihad does HT avoid engaging in?
armed
How many Muslims are in Greater London?
over 900,000
How long as the U.S. government been actively engaged in efforts to counter Islamism?
since 2001
The word imperialism has it's origins in which ancient language? 
Latin
Imperialism extends a country's power and what?
influence
A forced trade agreement between two countries would be an example of what?
"informal" imperialism
The amount of land a country controls is its greatest what?
distinction
Imperialism is confused with what other term?
colonialism
Political advantage is an attribute of which state policies?
Imperialism and colonialism
what is the most controversial aspect of imperialism?
empire-building
Where was Friedrich Ratzel born?
Germany
Which theory suggested people in the tropics were uncivilized?
environmental determinism
What law justified British imperialism?
Terra nullius
Orientalism refers to how the West developed a what of the East?
an imaginative geography
bassett focuses on what to illustrate his idea?
nineteenth-century maps
During which era did the Aztec and Incan empires thrive?
the pre-Columbian era
When imperialism impacts social norms of a state, what is it called?
Cultural imperialism
When did the age of Imperialism begin?
around 1700
When was John Gallagher born?
1919
European imperialism was focused on what?
economic growth
What advancements besides military technology did Europe achieve?
communication
Theories on imperialism use which country as a model?
British
some debate that there is a correlation between capitalism, imperialism, and what?
aristocracy
What served as a justification for imposing imperialistic policies on certain peoples or regions?
environmental determinism
Who thought the world could be split into climatic zones?
geographic scholars
When is the earliest Britain had an imperialist policy?
the sixteenth century
When did France take control of Algeria?
1830
Jules Ferry thought that the "higher races" have a duty to what?
civilize the inferior
Where did Charles de Gaulle and the Free French run operations during World War 2?
overseas colonies
Where were the Germanic tribes originally located?
Scandinavia
Germany doesn't have an imperialistic past until when?
late 19th century
Besides Africa, where did Germany have imperial interests?
the South Pacific
What happened as a result of the Russo-Japanese War?
Japan took part of Sakhalin Island
Who along with Russia supported post WW-II communist movements?
China
Trotsky thought what was needed for a true Russian revolution.
a world revolution
What was the first British empire based on?
mercantilism
By the late 19th century, which country had the largest empire ever to exist in the world?
The British Empire
How did the United States plan to subdue imperialistic tendencies? 
the Monroe Doctrine
Who was the director of the American Geographical Society in 1914?
Isiah Bowman
Some people describe what between individuals or groups as imperialism or colonialism?
internal strife
When did the Ottoman Empire fall?
1923
What was the capital of the Ottoman empire?
Istanbul
What does UMC stand for?
United Methodist Church
What is the largest denomination within the wider Methodist movement?
United Methodist Church
When did the movement that would become The United Methodist Church begin?
mid-18th century
In what year did John and Charles Wesley come to America to teach the gospel?
1735
What caused the separation of the Methodists in the American colonies?
American Revolution
What church is located at the corner of 4th and New Streets in Philadelphia?
St. George's United Methodist Church
Who became the first African Americans ordained by the Methodist Church?
Richard Allen and Absalom Jones
When did the Methodist Protestant Church split from the Methodist Episcopal Church?
1830
When was the United Methodist Church created?
April 23, 1968
The UMC understands itself to be part of what church?
holy catholic (or universal) church
Why was Wesley compelled to break with standard practice and ordain two of his lay preachers as presbyters?
result of the American Revolution
When was the UMC formed?
1968
What is the grace that "goes before us?"
Prevenient grace
What is the grace that we receive by faith and trust in God?
Justifying Grace or Accepting Grace
What is Sanctifying Grace?
grace of God which sustains the believers in the journey toward Christian Perfection
What has been characterized as Arminian theology with an emphasis on the work of the Holy Spirit?
Wesleyan theology
When did the General Conference go on record in support of the work of the Religious Coalition for Reproductive Choice?
2008
What are two official bodies of the UMC governing coalition?
The General Board of Church and Society, and the United Methodist Women
What is the taskforce that was organized to identify with the pro-life position?
Taskforce of United Methodists on Abortion and Sexuality (
Historically, which movement has the Methodist Church supported?
temperance movement
The UMC condemns what type of punishment?
capital punishment
The UMC prohibits the celebration of what type of unions?
same-sex unions
What is the governing committee  that voted in favor of a proposal that would permit ministers to officiate same-sex weddings?
Connectional Table
In what year was Rose Mary Denman defrocked for openly living with a same-sex partner?
1987
What does the UMC oppose as incompatible with the teaching of Scripture?
conscription
The UMC maintains that war is incompatible with what?
Christ's message and teachings
Which task force states that pornography is harmful?
The Sexual Ethics Task Force of The United Methodist Church
The UMC supports federal funding for research on embryos created for what purpose?
IVF
What is the revised version of The Book of Common Prayer called?
Sunday Service of the Methodists in North America
In what country does some clergy in the UMC occasionally practice exorcism?
Africa
What may be named after a biblical figure?
Methodist institutions
What church is organized into conferences?
United Methodist Church
The United States is divided into how many jurisdictions?
five
Who makes decisions in between the four-year meetings?
Mission Council
How many members make up the Judicial Council?
nine
What is the basic unit of organization within the UMC?
The Annual Conference
What is the guidebook for local churches and pastors?
The Book of Discipline
The UMC established and is affiliated with approximately how many colleges and universities in the U.S.?
one hundred
Who ordained the first Methodist clergy?
John Wesley
What is composed of the Area Provost/Dean ad the several District Superintendents of the Districts in the Annual Conference?
Annual Conference Cabinet
Who is called by God, affirmed by the church and ordained by a bishop?
Elders
Deacons serve a term of how many years as provisional deacons?
2–3 years
In what year was the ordination order of transitional deacon abolished?
1996
What is a local pastor's official title?
Licensed Local Pastor
What are members who have been baptized as an infant or child but who have not subsequently professed their own faith?
Baptized Members
Unlike confirmation and profession of faith, what is a sacrament in the UMC?
Baptism
Local church and certified  are two types of what?
lay servants
What is one tradition within the Christian Church?
United Methodist Church
In what year was the Commission on Pan Methodist Cooperation and Union formed?
2000
At the time of its formation, how many members did the UMC have?
11 million
By the opening of the 2008 General Conference, what was the total UMC membership?
11.4 million
Which group seeks to reconceive and promote Biblical holiness in today's church?
Wesleyan Holiness Consortium
When was the French and Indian War?
1754–1763
Where was war fought?
primarily along the frontiers between New France and the British colonies
When did colonial governors meet with General Edward Braddock about attack on the french?
1755
Who increased British military resources in colonies?
William Pitt
What territory was ceded to Britain?
territory east of the Mississippi to Great Britain
When was King George's war?
1740s
What time framd does the Seven Years War cover?
declaration of war in 1756 to the signing of the peace treaty in 1763
What was French population in North America?
about 75,000
What was the ratio of British settler to French?
20 to 1
In between French and British, what groups controlled land?
native tribes
What are the Siouan-speaking tribes?
Catawba, Muskogee-speaking Creek and Choctaw
What was Frensh military presence at start of war?
no French regular army troops were stationed in North America
What was extent of Celeron's expedition?
about 3,000 miles (4,800 km) between June and November 1749.
How did Natives in Logstown take Celeron's information?
informed Céloron that they owned the Ohio Country and that they would trade with the British regardless of the French
How did Celeron feel about Native relations?
very badly disposed towards the French, and are entirely devoted to the English
When did British government give land for development of Ohio Country?
1749
What was the North American portion of War of Austrian Succession?
King George's War
What Governor in charge of New France died in 1752?
Marquis de la Jonquière
Who took command of French in spring of 1753?
Paul Marin de la Malgue
What was William Johnson's role in British military?
British Superintendent for Indian Affairs in the New York region and beyond
Governon Robert Dinwiddie had an investment in what significan company?
Ohio Company
Who invited Washington to dine with him?
Jacques Legardeur de Saint-Pierre
How many men did Duquesne send to relieve  Saint-Pierre ?
Contrecœur led 500 men south from Fort Venango on April 5, 1754
Upon learning of a French scounting party in the area, what did Washington do?
with Tanaghrisson and his party, surprised the Canadians on May 28 in what became known as the Battle of Jumonville Glen
What was the goal of Braddock's expedition?
dislodge the French
What political response was convening in June/July 1754?
Albany Congress
Who went to Fort Dusquesne in June 1755?
Braddock (with George Washington as one of his aides) led about 1,500 army troops
Whose activities were the French able to gain knowledge of?
Shirley and Johnson.
Who was New France's governor?
Marquis de Vaudreuil.
Who captured Fort Beausejour?
Colonel Monckton
After Braddock died, who controlled North American British forces?
William Shirley
Who was appointed as second in command to Lor Loudoun in 1756?
Major General James Abercrombie
Where was there a weakness in British supply chain?
Oneida Carry
Who refused to act until Loudoun approved plans?
Abercrombie
What was Loudoun's plans for 1757?
attack on New France's capital, Quebec
What troops attacked Fort William Henry in early 1757?
French irregular forces (Canadian scouts and Indians)
What was causing New France to have issues with resupplying?
British blockade of the French coastline limited French shipping.
What led to Newcastle's fall from power as military advisor?
British failures in North America, combined with other failures in the European theater
How many Frenchman won Battle of Carillon?
3,600
In 1758 what was duc de Choiseul's plan for focused military efforts?
invasion of Britain, to draw British resources away from North America and the European mainland
Who defeated Montcalm at Quebec?
James Wolfe
In Sept 1760 who negotiated a capitulation from Montreal?
Governor Vaudreuil
When did the North American French and Indian War end?
signing of the Treaty of Paris on 10 February 1763
How many French colonists were gained by British?
80,000
Who issued the Royal Proclamation of 1763?
King George III
Where did many Spanish Catholic move after British takeover in Florida?
Most went to Cuba,
What concept did philosophers in antiquity use to study simple machines?
force
What has partical physics made to describe sub-atomic forces?
Standard Model
Who provided a philosophical discussion of force?
Aristotle
When were the shortcomings of Aristotle's physics overcome?
17th century
Whose First Law of Motion says that unless acted upon be forces, objects would continue to move at a constant velocity?
Newton
What doesn't change from being at rest to movement at a constant velocity?
laws of physics
What concept explains why objects continue in constant motion?
inertia
What describes the proportionality of acceleration to force and mass?
Newton's Second Law
When forces are from the presence of differnet objects, what law gives symmetry?
Newton's Third
What experiences acceleration when external force is applied to a system?
center of mass
What does pushing and pulling perceptions provide for describing forces?
intuitive understanding
How are forces classified with regard to push and pull strengt?
vector quantities
In what conditions were forces first measured historically?
static equilibrium
When forces are at right angles to each other what can they be broken down to?
independent components
What can keep an object from moving when it is being pushed on a surface?
static friction
What can scales and spring balances measure between two forces by using static equilibrium?
forces
Who first described dynamic equilibrium?
Galileo
What occurs when traveling across a surface at a constant velocity with regard to friction?
dynamic equilibrium
What equation currently decribes the physics of force.
Schrödinger
What is the intrisic angular variable called when particles act upon one another?
spin
How are the particle forces and accelerations explained as by gauge bosons exchange?
mathematical by-product
How many interactions are all of the universal forces based on?
four
Who formed the universal theory of gravitation?
Isaac Newton
Who identified gravity as a force?
Isaac Newton
How might gravity effects be observed differently according to Newton?
at larger distances.
What is used to figure the relative strengh of gravity?
Newton's Universal Gravitation Constant,
What planet seemed to buck Newton's gravitational laws?
Mercury
What theory best explains gravity?
general relativity
What is  the time rate of change of electric charge?
electric current
Who first fully explained the origins of magnetic and electric fields?
James Clerk Maxwell
What was dificult to reconcile the photoelectric effect and the missing ultraviolet catastrophe?
electromagnetic theory
What is often misunderstood as the cause of matter rigidity?
repulsion of like charges
What does stong force act upon?
elementary particles
What does the W and Z boson exchange create?
weak force
What is the repulsive force of close range atom interaction?
normal force
What can be used to model tension forces?
ideal strings
What did Newton's mechanics affect?
idealized point particles
What causes strain in structures?
stress tensor
What is the force equivalent of torque compared to angular momentum?
rotational equivalent for position
Where does centripetal force go?
toward the center of the curving path
What is the only form potential energy can change into?
kinetic
What is sometimes impossible to model?
forces
In what treatment are nonconservative and conservative forces described?
statistical mechanics
What is the metric term less used than the Newton?
kilogram-force
To whom did the Virgin Mary allegedly appear in 1858 in Lourdes France?
Saint Bernadette Soubirous
When did the Scholastic Magazine of Notre dame begin publishing?
September 1876
Where is the headquarters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross?
Rome
How many BS level degrees are offered in the College of Engineering at Notre Dame?
eight
What entity provides help with the management of time for new students at Notre Dame?
Learning Resource Center
The granting of Doctorate degrees first occurred in what year at Notre Dame?
1924
What institute at Notre Dame studies  the reasons for violent conflict?
Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies
How many stories tall is the main library at Notre Dame?
14
How many incoming students did Notre Dame admit in fall 2015?
3,577
Where did U.S. News & World Report rank Notre Dame in its 2015-2016 university rankings?
18th overall
What person was the Director of the Science Museum at Notre Dame in the late 19th century?
Father Joseph Carrier, C.S.C.
In what year did Albert Zahm begin comparing aeronatical models at Notre Dame?
1882
Work on a germ-free-life ended up in the creation of which Notre Dame institute?
The Lobund Institute
Gurian created what in 1939 at Notre Dame?
The Review of Politics
Who was the president of Notre Dame in 2012?
John Jenkins
How many undergrads were attending Notre Dame in 2014?
8,448
What percentage of undergrads live on the Notre Dame campus?
80%
What is Congregation of Holy Cross in Latin?
Congregatio a Sancta Cruce
What was the music hall at Notre Dame called?
Washington Hall
What type of education was pushed at Notre Dame before its embracing of national standards?
scholastic and classical
The Notre Dame football team got a new head coach in 1918, who was it?
Knute Rockne
Catholic people identified with Notre Dame, what religious group did people feel Yale represented?
the Protestant establishment
Which person became vice-president of Notre Dame in 1933?
Father John Francis O'Hara
Around the time that Rev. Cavanaugh became president of Notre Dame by how much did the undergrad student body of Notre Dame increase?
more than half
What was the lifespan of Theodore Hesburgh?
1917–2015
What type of educational institute is Hesburgh given credit for creating at Notre Dame?
coeducational
During what years was Edward Malloy president of Notre Dame?
1987–2005
When did John Jenkins become the president of Notre Dame?
2005
Which congregation is in charge of the Old College at Notre Dame?
Congregation of Holy Cross
Which person oversaw the creation of a science hall at Notre Dame in 1883?
Fr. Zahm
How many halls are at Notre Dame that house students?
29
In what year did Notre Dame create the Office of Sustainability?
2008
In what year did Notre Dame first have a facility in England?
1968
What was Notre Dame's first college?
The College of Arts and Letters
Which president at Notre Dame created the College of Science?
Father Patrick Dillon
In 1899 Notre Dame formed which college?
School of Architecture
In what year did the opening of a theology library at Notre Dame occur?
2015
What caused many intellectual Catholics to leave europe in the 1930s?
The rise of Hitler and other dictators
The school known as Notre Dame is known by a more lengthy name, what is it?
University of Notre Dame du
What caused Notre Dame to become notable in the early 20th century?
its Fighting Irish football team
Where among US universities does Notre Dame rank?
among the top twenty
In what year was Father Edward Sorin given two years to create a college?
1842
In what year did the initial degrees get handed out at Notre Dame?
1849
Which television station finds its home at Notre Dame?
NDtv
How much is Eddy Street Commons at Notre Dame expected to cost?
$215 million
What does the acronym NCAA stand for?
National Collegiate Athletic Association
To what conference did the Fighting Irish go after the Big East?
the ACC
Who currently provides uniforms to Notre Dame sport teams?
Under Armour
Which team did Notre Dame's football team find inspiration from?
Michigan Wolverines football team
What notable football player played at Notre Dame from 1916 to 1920?
George Gipp
What is displayed at Zahm House for football home games at Notre Dame?
two-story banner
How many wins does the Notre Dame men's basketball team have?
over 1,600
Who wrote the original lyrics to the Notre Dame Victory March?
John F. Shea
Ronald Reagan had a nickname, what was it?
The Gipper
Which Secretary of State attended Notre Dame?
Condoleezza Rice
When did Beyonce start becoming popular?
in the late 1990s
After her second solo album, what other entertainment venture did Beyonce explore?
acting
In her music, what are some recurring elements in them?
love, relationships, and monogamy
Beyonce's younger sibling also sang with her in what band?
Destiny's Child
What town did Beyonce go to school in?
Fredericksburg
Who decided to place Beyonce's group in Star Search the talent show?
Arne Frager
Which film featured Destiny's Child's first major single?
Men in Black
What mental health issue did Beyonce go through?
depression
"Charlie's Angels" featured which single from the band members?
Independent Women Part I
Who did Beyonce star with in the movie, "Austin Powers in Goldmember"?
Mike Myers
What was the highest Beyonce's first solo recording achieved in the Billboard Hot 100?
number four
Destiny's Child's final album was named what?
Destiny Fulfilled
How many albums did Beyonce sell in the first week when she released her second album?
541,000
What movie did Beyonce act in 2006?
The Pink Panther
Beyonce got married in 2008 to whom?
Jay Z
Beyonce portrayed which character in the film, Cadillac Records?
Etta James
How many awards was Beyonce nominated for at the 52nd Grammy Awards?
ten
Beyonce would take a break from music in which year?
2010
In which year was reports about Beyonce performing for Muammar Gaddafi surface?
2011
Beyonce's fourth album debuted in what year?
2011
When did Beyonce have her first child?
January 7, 2012
Destiny's Child released a compilation album about which topic?
romance
How many dates did Beyonce's "The Mrs. Carter Show" entail?
132
Where did Beyonce release her 5th album to a huge surprise?
the iTunes Store
How many awards did Beyonce take home with her at the 57th Grammy Awards?
three
Beyonce released the song "Formation" on which online music service?
Tidal
As of April 2014, how many albums have Jay Z and Beyonce sold together?
300 million
Jay Z and Beyonce attended which event together in August of 2011?
MTV Video Music Awards
Jay Z has a website called what?
Lifeandtimes.com
Beyonce and Jay-Z went to a rally for the acquittal of whom?
George Zimmerman
Beyonce did an interview with which magazine and was asked about feminism?
Vogue
Beyonce signed a letter with who in 2015?
the ONE Campaign
Beyonce along with Jay Z met with whom's family after their death?
Freddie Gray
Beyonce beat out which musical artists for most paid between June 2007 and June 2008?
Madonna and Celine Dion
Beyonce's range in singing is how many octaves?
four
Music from Beyonce is generally categorized as what genre?
R&B
Beyonce does not create which aspect of her music?
beats
Pop Songwriter of the Year award in 2001 was awarded to whom?
Beyoncé
To whom did Beyonce credit as her major influence on her music?
Michael Jackson
What themes were influenced by her acting role in Dreamgirls?
feminism and female empowerment
Beyonce has noted which first lady with saying "She proves you can do it all"?
Michelle Obama
Beyonce had an all-female tour band whose name was what?
Suga Mama
What characteristics has Beyonce received acclaim for?
stage presence and voice
Beyonce self proclaimed alter ego is named what?
Sasha Fierce
Beyonce's sex appeal is characterized as what?
wide-ranging
in September 2010, what career area did Beyonce start exploring?
modelling
Which parent of Beyonce's help co-write a book?
Her mother
Beyonce has a fan base that is referred to as what?
The Bey Hive
Beyonce has a clothing line known as what?
House of Deréon
Which racial community gave criticism to Beyonce?
African-American
Artist of the Decade was bestowed upon Beyonce from which magazine?
The Guardian
Which rock band cited Beyonce on their third album?
White Rabbits
VH1 declared what song the "Greatest song of the 2000s?"
Crazy in Love
How many copies of her albums as Beyonce sold in the US?
15 million
How many Grammys has Beyonce won total with and without Destiny's Child?
20
Which soda company has Beyonce partnered with since 2002?
Pepsi
Beyonce worked with who on her perfumes, True Star and True Star Gold?
Tommy Hilfiger
How young was Beyonce when she acquired deals from American Express and L'Oreal?
18
Who did Bayonce's management go into business with in 2014?
fashion retailer Topshop
When was it discovered Beyonce was a co-owner of the music service, Tidal?
March 30, 2015
House of Dereon became known through Beyonce and which of Beyonce's relatives?
her mother
What type of accessory company did Beyonce partner with in 2005?
shoe
Beyonce, during October 2014, partnered with whom to produce an outdoor line of clothing?
Topshop
What national disaster caused Beyonce to create the Survivor Foundation?
Hurricane Katrina
Who did Beyonce participate with in the Hope for Haiti Now: A Global Benefit?
George Clooney and Wyclef Jean
Which national event caused Beyonce to produce "Demand a Plan?"
Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting
Where does the state's name come from?
Spanish word montaña (mountain)
What year was the state tree selected?
1908
When was the state song composed?
1910
What is Montana's motto? 
Oro y Plata
How much of the states population does the "Big 7" have?
35 percent
How many counties does Montana have?
56
Where does the state's name mean?
"mountain"
What is the total area of Montana?
147,040 square miles
Where are most of the states mountain ranges?
western half of the state
Which direction do the rivers flow near the Triple Divide Peak?
north
How high is the Beartooth Plateau?
over 10,000 feet
How many seats do Democrats hold in the state US Senate's seats?
one
In elections, what is Montana considered?
a swing state
What is the name of the busiest airport in Montana?
Bozeman Yellowstone International Airport
What is the states largest railway?
BNSF Railway
What is the name of the big game hunting foundation in Montana?
Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation
Since when has Montana been a destination for trout fisheries?
1930s
When was the Montana Territory formed?
April 26, 1864
How many miles of rivers are known for high class trout?
450
What rivers form the Missouri River?
Jefferson, Madison and Gallatin rivers
Which direction does the Yellowstone River flow through the national park?
north
How many named lakes are there in Montana?
at least 3,223
About how much area do forests cover the state?
approximately 25 percent
How many different types of fish are diverse to Montana?
90
What is the annual precipitation?
15 inches
How many tax brackets does Montana have?
7
About how many Native Americans live in Montana?
Approximately 66,000
What is the largest European-American race in Montana?
German
What percentage of the population in Montana are Native peoples?
6.5 percent
In what year did many cities in Montana set heat records?
2007
What year was the Hellgate treaty formed?
1855
What was the name of the first US Army post?
Camp Cooke
What is the official language of Montana?
English
What percent of the state is White?
89.4 percent
What was the population of the state in 2015?
1,032,949
What year was Jeannette Rankin vote against war the first time?
1917
About how many bison were in Montana in 1870?
over 13 million
When did the Northern Pacific Railroad reach Montana from the west?
1881
When was the first constitutional convention held in Montana?
1866
What year did the Homestead Act provide land to settlers?
1862
When was the Desert Land Act passed?
1877
Who promoted settlement in Montana in the early 1900s
James J. Hill
When did Congress pass the Espionage Act?
1917
How many Montanans entered the miltary in the first year of the war?
40,000-plus
In the judgement, it is stated that the aim of the Genocide Convention, at its most simplest, is preventing the destruction of which victims?
entire human groups
Two bodies of the United Nations agreed with what restricted provision in defining genocide?
that biological-physical destruction was necessary
In 1948, what general assembly resolution established genocide as a prosecutable act? 
the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide
Which provision was initially included in the first write-up of the Convention and then removed?
political killings
Which group was accused by the ECHR of having an overly constricted idea of the meaning of destruction in defining genocide?
majority of legal scholars
Prior to being a formal legal term, how was the word "genocide" used in an indictment scenario?
as a descriptive term
What has been the primary focus in the study of genocide?
legal aspect of the term
When was the word "genocide" first used?
1944
Several considerations were involved in meeting the requirement to determine what?  
when the targeted part is substantial enough
The issue of what is raised by judges in Paragraph 13? 
perpetrators' access to the victims
On which date did the Genocide Convention become effective?
12 January 1951
In 1998 it was written that the CPPCG was a legal entity resulting in which type of compromise?
a diplomatic compromise
What two writers examined the lack of an accepted and singular definition for genocide?
Jonassohn and Björnson
Some historians were critical of what exclusion in the definition of victims of genocide?
social and political groups
Harff and Gurr's definition of genocide included the promotion and execution of what, by a state or its agents?
policies
In the writings of Rummel, what is the first and ordinary meaning of genocide?
murder by government
In terms of failed states and non-state actors, the possession of weapons of mass destruction was an issue examined by which writer?
Adrian Gallagher
Signatories to the CPPC are required to prevent and punish what?
acts of genocide
In 1948 the worldwide acceptance of international laws that defined and forbade genocide was promulgated by which treaty?
Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide
Which court dismissed Nikola Jorgic's appeal against his conviction for genocide by a German court?
European Court of Human Rights
In the 1990s, how many people were indicted for war crimes that were officially defined as genocide?
About 30
What event occurred in March 2006 that essentially ended Milosevic's trial?
He died
What court was established under the aegis of the United Nations to prosecute genocidal crimes in Rwanda?
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR)
What has been widely debated as a possible act of genocide in Sudan?
situation in Darfur
To whom did the Security Council officially refer the situation in Darfur?
Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court
In the build-up to genocide, what have other authors focused on?
structural conditions
What is a modern common occurence with antibiotics?
resistance of bacteria
What does the potency of antibacterials depend upon?
concentration
What do anitibiotics mostly target?
bacterial functions or growth processes
What are antibiotics in chemical terms?
semisynthetic modifications
What is one disease that has been nearly eradicated thanks to vaccines and antibiotics?
tuberculosis
What is one kind of therapy that may be used when a patience has an infection, but it has not been identified?
empirical therapy
What are two examples of minor side effects caused by some antibiotics?
fever and nausea
What is one common result of using antibiotics from a young age?
increased body mass
Do antibiotics interact with birth control pills?
The majority of studies indicate antibiotics do interfere with contraceptive pills
What is one potential issue with drinking alcohol while taking antibiotics?
decreased effectiveness
What is part of hje the make up of bacterial strains?
Intrinsic antibacterial resistance
What are strains that are resistant to antibiotics called sometimes?
superbugs
What are the two biggest reasons for resistance?
Inappropriate antibiotic treatment and overuse
What is a way of improperly using antibiotics for those traveling?
prophylactic antibiotics
What is the name of a US government agency tasked with trying to stop improper use of antibiotics?
US Interagency Task Force on Antimicrobial Resistance
When did the EU ban antibiotics for speeding up growth?
2003
What besides sick people are antibiotics used for?
animal husbandry
What methods did people use before antibiotics to treat infections?
medicinal folklore
What type of organism has been reported to have worked on infections?
mold
What was the first available antibiotic?
Prontosil
What was the first antibiotic developed from nature?
tyrothricin
When was penicillin G first purified?
1942
What do vaccines need to work?
immune modulation or augmentation
What has been talked about to treat resistant bacteria?
Phage therapy
How many antibiotics have been created in the last 7 years?
2
Who regulates antibiotic approval?
FDA
What was Frédéric's nationalities?
Polish and French
At what age did Frédéric move to Paris?
21
What instrument did every composition by Frédéric include?
piano
What was the degree of Frédéric's association with political insurrection?
indirect
In what village was Frédéric born in?
Żelazowa Wola
Who did Frédéric's father marry in 1806?
Justyna Krzyżanowska
During what month did Frédéric move to Warsaw with his family?
October
Who was Frédéric's first professional teacher in music?
Wojciech Żywny
In what year was the Saxon Palace taken by the Russian governor for use regarding the military?
1817
During what years did Frédéric visit the Warsaw Lyceum for lessons?
1823 to 1826
Who was Frédéric a guest of during his visit of Szafarnia in 1824 and 1825?
Dominik Dziewanowski
During what year did Frédéric's youngest sister, Emilia, pass away?
1827
Of the individuals that became intimate with Frédéric during their stay at the family apartments, which two became part of Frédéric's social environment in Paris?
Jan Matuszyński and Julian Fontana
Who did Frédéric visit Berlin with in September 1828?
Feliks Jarocki
What did Frédéric compose after hearing Niccolò Paganini perform on the violin?
Souvenir de Paganini
On what date did Frédéric begin his journey into Western Europe?
2 November 1830
What event was Frédéric a part of when he arrived in Paris during the later part of September in 1831?
the Polish Great Emigration
In what city did Frédéric achieve celebrity status?
Paris
Which friend of Frédéric failed to achieve success in England?
Julian Fontana
Who gave Frédéric his first significant public approval in regards to his compositions?
Robert Schumann
What was Frédéric's favorite environment to perform in?
his own Paris apartment for small groups of friends
Who did Frédéric meet in the spring of 1834 at the Lower Rhenish Music Festival?
Felix Mendelssohn
Who was the recipient of Frédéric's letter he wrote on 12 December 1831?
Woyciechowski
What address did Frédéric live at during his stay in Paris?
38 Rue de la Chaussée-d'Antin
What term describes the qualities of the relationship between Frédéric and Liszt?
love-hate relationship
Who was the host of the gathering where Frédéric was introduced to George Sand?
Marie d'Agoult
What city did Frédéric visit in June 1837?
London
How many doctors saw Frédéric by the 3rd of December?
Three
What is stated as having a negative effect on Frédéric's health during this productive time?
bad weather
What event were Chopin and Sand at on 26 July 1840?
Berlioz's Grande symphonie funèbre et triomphale
What is the example given of a work produced by Frédéric during calm summers at Nohant?
Polonaise in A-flat major, Op. 53
In which year did Chopin begin experiencing a serious decline in health?
1842
What was the name of Sand's daughter's fiance that contributed to deteriorating the relationship between Sand and Chopin?
Auguste Clésinger
What was the name of the single piece of work he wrote in 1844?
Op. 58 sonata
In what month and year did Chopin give his final performance?
February 1848
What television station made a documentary on Chopin?
BBC
What was the name of the 1945 movie released about Chopin?
A Song to Remember
When was the first fictionalized account of Chopin's life?
1901
An 1830 sonnet was written about Chopin by what man?
Leon Ulrich
The Warsaw Chopin Society holds the Grand prix du disque de F. Chopin how often?
every five years.
What year was the earliest Chopin recording created?
1895
What is the name of the oldest music essay competition?
International Chopin Piano Competition
What is the name of the ballet that included Chopin's work?
Chopiniana
Where did Chopin head to during the Revolution of 1848?
London
Where did Chopin stay while in London?
Dover Street
Where did Jane Stirling invite Chopin?
Scotland
When did Chopin last appear in public?
16 November 1848
Who did Chopin play for while she sang?
Delfina Potocka
When did his sister come to stay with Chopin?
June 1849
Why did Chopin request being cut open after his death?
fear of being buried alive
What is listed as Chopin's official cause of death?
tuberculosis
Where was Chopin's funeral held?
Church of the Madeleine
What song was sung at Chopin's funeral?
Mozart's Requiem
Who sculpted Chopin's tombstone?
Clésinger
How many of Chopin's works still exist?
Over 230
Whose piano method did Chopin teach his students?
Clementi
Who is credited with creating the nocturne?
John Field
How many polonaises were published while Chopin lived?
seven
What is another title Op. 10, No. 12 has garnered? 
the Revolutionary Étude
What was the last number Chopin gave to an opus?
65
The Kobylańska Catalogue was named for who?
Krystyna Kobylańska
Who released the first collection of Chopin's works?
Breitkopf & Härtel
What is central to Chopin's process?
Improvisation
What piece does J. Barrie Jones pinpoint as a great example of Chopin's palette?
the Barcarolle Op. 60
Chopin's mazurkas contain more of what than his other compositions? 
folk features
What time are Chopin's polonaises written in?
triple time
How many nocturnes did Chopin compose?
21
What pieces of his did Chopin use to teach his technique?
études
What piece of Bach's did Chopin take inspiration for his preludes?
The Well-Tempered Clavier
How many movements are No. 2, Op. 35 and No. 3, Op 58 in?
four
Chopin's chord progressions are similar in style to what other composer?
Claude Debussy
What was Chopin's style based upon?
independent finger technique
According to J. Barrie Jones who was the only true successor to Chopin?
Karol Szymanowski
Who wrote that the current large concert style conflicts with Chopin's preference of intimate performances?
Jonathan Bellman
Chopin's compositions are often played with what?
rubato
According to who did Chopin demand strictly sticking with rhythm?
Friederike Müller
Chopin was noted as introducing music to what?
sense of nationalism
Who said that Chopin's familiarity with Polish music was more "urbanised"  than true folk music?
Barbara Milewski
William Atwood suggested that Chopin's music wasn't purposely patriotic but what?
intuitive
Arthur Hutchings stated that Chopin's lack of what made him special?
Byronic flamboyance
In what suite did Schumann name a work for Chopin?
Carnaval
Who dedicated his 1915 piano Études to Chopin?
Debussy
Who were Wang Jiawei and Nyima Gyaincain?
Mainland Chinese scholars
What important trade did the Ming Dynasty have with Tibet?
horse trade
What did the Tibetans use against Ming forays?
armed resistance
In what century did the Tibetan Empire fall?
the 9th century
When did the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period of China take place?
907–960
Which ruler took Western Xia under their control?
Genghis Khan
Who was the Mongol prince?
Godan
How many states were ruled by myriarchies?
thirteen
When did Kublai Khan conquer the song dynasty?  
1279
What year was the Sakya viceregal regime eradicated? 
1358
Who created the Ming Dynasty? 
Zhu Yuanzhang
Who was the fourth Karmapa Lama?
Rolpe Dorje
Who created a law that did not allow Han Chinese to learn the beliefs of Tibetan Buddhism?
Ming government
What years did the Qing dynasty rule?
1644–1912
How many princes of Dharma were assigned by the Ming court?
three
who was a professor of the University of Washington?
Turrell V. Wylie
Who supported van Praag's beliefs? 
historian Tsepon W. D. Shakabpa
Who believed that the Ming court had full sovereignty over Tibet?
Wang and Nyima
Who wrote the book The Story of Tibet?
Journalist and author Thomas Laird
How did the The Columbia Encyclopedia describe the Yuan dynasty?
A Mongol dynasty of China
When did Ayurbarwada Buyantu Khan reign?
1311–1320
Who abolished the policy council?
the Ming
Where is the China Tibetology Research Center located?
Beijing
What was the name of the Tibetologist?
John Powers
What was the western regions composed of?
the Tarim Basin and oasis of Turpan
What title was given by the Yuan court to Tai Situ Changchub Gyaltsen ?
Education Minister
Who divided Central Tibet into districts? 
Changchub Gyaltsen
Who did the Hongwu Emperor grant the title Initiation State Master to?
Sagya Gyaincain
Who lost their power over Tibet?
the Phagmodrupa
The Ming Dynasty granted what titles to lamas of schools?
the Karmapa Kargyu
When did the Ming first request Tsongkhapa to come to court?
1407
Who believed the Ming reappointed old Yuan dynasty officials in Tibet?
Dawa Norbu
Who did the Ming appoint titles to?
eastern Tibetan princes
What was the name of the  eunuch?
Yang Sanbao
Who did the Gelug exchange gifts with?
the Ming court
Regardless of their sectarian affiliations, who did the Ming grant titles to?
various lamas
Who believed that the Ming had no real authority over Tibet?
Melvyn C. Goldstein
What year did the Jianwen Emperor reign start and end?
1398–1402
Who did the Yongle Emperor send to Tibet?
Hou Xian and the Buddhist monk Zhi Guang
When did Deshin Shekpa travels start?
1403
At what temple did the ceremonies for the Yongle Emperor's deceased parents take place?
Linggu Temple
Who imposed on the military might on Tibet in the past? 
the Mongols
Who did the Yongle Emperor have a conflict with?
Jianwen Emperor
According to Norbu who failed to realize the significance of the religious aspect of the Ming-Tibetan relationship?
Chinese Communist historians
What years did the Zhengtong Emperor reign?
1435–1449
Who did the Ming cut off all relations with?
the Karmapa hierarchs
Why did Yongle order the construction?
to facilitate trade with Tibet
Why does Van Praag believe the Ming court set up a diplomatic delegation with Tibet?
to secure urgently needed horses
Who did the Ming trade horses with?
Tibet
When did the Hongwu Emperor use military force in Tibet?
the 14th century
What did the mid Ming dynasty discussion focus mainly on?
recovery of the Ordos region
What policy does Luciano Petech and Sato Hisashi claim the Ming held towards the Tibet?
divide-and-rule
Who were the Rinpungpa leaders related to?
the Phagmodrupa
When did the Zhengde Emperor rule? 
1505–1521
Who said Tibet  wasn't an integral part of of China?
Chinese writers of the early 20th century
During Which dynasty does Josef Kolmaš claim Tibet was considered an organic part of China?
the Qing dynasty
Who does P. Christiaan Klieger claim to have had a mutual role of religious prelate?
the Tibetan lamas and Mongol khans
When was Tibet included into the territory of Yuan dynasty's China?
the 13th century
When did the Jiajing Emperor reign? 
1521–1567
Who was Zhengde's successor? 
Jiajing
What region did the Tumed Mongols move into?
the Kokonor region
What practice did Altan Khan put to an end?
the native Mongol practices of shamanism and blood sacrifice
Who was Altan Khan's nominal superior?
Tümen Khan
Who was given the grandiose title?
Sonam Gyatso
Who did the Ming dynasty showed favors to?
the third Dalai Lama
What title was the fourth Dalai Lama granted? 
Master of Vajradhara
Who's presence increased in Tibet?
the Mongols
When were the Rinbung princes overthrown?
1565
Who did the 5th Dalai Lama beg for help from?
the Mongol prince Güshi Khan
Who did Güshi Khan organize a welcome ceremony for?
Lozang Gyatso
Who did the the Chinese Ming dynasty fall to?
the rebellion of Li Zicheng
Who tried to spread their territory into Tibet?
the Dzungar Mongols
Which company produces the iPod?
Apple
In addition to playing music, what other function can the iPod perform?
data storage
What Apple program is used to communicate between computers and portable devices?
iTunes
Prior to iOS 5, how many apps were required to play music and videos on iPhone and iPad?
one
What processor model is used in the iPod Touch?
A8
In what year was the iPod first introduced?
2001
Which company worked with Apple in creating the user interface for the iPod?
Pixo
In what year was a special edition of the iPod produced?
2006
Apple was involved in a lawsuit with which company in 2007?
Burst.com
Who came up with the name for Apple's portable mp3 player?
Vinnie Chieco
When were images of new iPod colors leaked?
mid-2015
What audio deficiency was found in the 3rd gen iPods?
weak bass response
What acoustic element could be distorted by different audio settings in iPods prior to 2007?
Bass
What type of sensory issue was a concern prior to the release of 5th gen iPods?
hearing loss
What was the first type of connection used by the iPod to charge and transfer files?
FireWire
In which generation did iPod start providing compatibility with USB?
third generation
Which iPod accessory was made by Apple but is no longer produced?
iPod Hi-Fi
What new connector did Apple unveil on September 12, 2012?
Lightning
What is the name of an Apple-produced iPod accessory?
iPod Hi-Fi
What company was first to create a means of connecting the iPod to an automobile?
BMW
What companies have developed iPod interfacing for their stereo systems?
JVC, Pioneer, Kenwood, Alpine, Sony, and Harman Kardon
In 2007, which airlines made deals to include iPod connections on their planes?
United, Continental, Delta, and Emirates
What is the name of an audio format developed by Apple?
Apple Lossless
How many hosts are recognized by an iPod the first time they're used?
one
How many buttons do most iPods use?
five
When was the Apple iTunes Store launched?
April 29, 2003
When the iTunes store was launched, what type of file format was used?
AAC
What are two stores which sell files with DRM not compatible with iPods?
Napster and MSN Music
What company ended its deal with Apple's music store in July of 2007?
Universal Music Group
What was the name of the event at which the iTunes Wi-Fi store was launched?
The Beat Goes On...
On what devices can video games be used?
iPods
In what year did the iTunes store begin allowing users to buy video games?
2006
What are the names of companies producing video games for Apple's MP3 player?
Namco, Square Enix, Electronic Arts, Sega, and Hudson Soft
What format is used for iPod game files?
.ipg
What kind program is commonly used to move files between iTunes and an iPod?
iTunes
What kind of security determines if files moved to a computer can be played?
DRM
In what kind of folder are files located in the iPod?
hidden
In what year did Apple face multiple intellectual property lawsuits?
2005
What interface component did Apple attempt to patent in 2005?
rotational user inputs
When did Creative and Apple come to an agreement over their intellectual property issues?
August 24, 2006
What share of the US digital music player market does iPod hold?
90%
When did HP unveil their own edition of the iPod?
January 8, 2004
How many iPods did Apple reveal it sold in April of 2007?
hundred million
What was Apple's revenue for Q3 2007?
$6.22 billion
When did Apple reveal it had achieved its highest quarterly earnings to date?
January 22, 2008
Who was Chief Financial Officer of Apple in July of 2009?
Peter Oppenheimer
What rank did iPod achieve among various computer products in 2006?
fourth
Aside from recreational use, in what other arena have iPods found use?
business
What University gave an iPod to first year students in 2004?
Duke
What period of music did the iPod help bring to a close?
the Album Era
How long were 5th generation iPods marketed as being able to function before needing to be charged?
14 hours
Whose directions can be followed to interact with iPod batteries?
third-party vendors
What did Apple launch on November 14, 2003?
battery replacement program
What part of the iPod Nano was the cause of the overheating issue?
battery
What are two subjects of criticism of iPods?
short life-span and fragile hard drives
What publication revealed information about the working conditions of iPod labor?
The Mail on Sunday
Who did Apple partner with to monitor its labor policies?
Verité
In what year did Chinese Foxconn emplyees kill themselves?
2010
What attribute of the United States could be thought to lead more international and less domestic employment opportunities?
innovation
To work as a boot disk for a Mac, what file system must an iPod be formatted with?
HFS+
What category of game is Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess?
action-adventure
Who is the main character of the story?
Link
What accolade did Twilight Princess receive after its release?
Game of the Year
What are the three main activities in The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess?
combat, exploration, and item collection
Many different types of interaction can be controlled by how many buttons?
one
Where is the speaker located on the Wii console?
Wii Remote
How many dungeon instances are provided in Twilight Princess?
nine
What form does Link take in the Twilight Realm?
Wolf
What does AI stand for?
artificial intelligence
Through what can Link's reaction and mood can be discerned?
nods and facial expressions
What is Link's job at the start of Twilight Princess?
ranch hand
What does Link assist Midna in collection?
Fused Shadows
What does Link obtain that gives him control over his transformations?
Shadow Crystal
What possession of Midna does Ganondorf destroy?
helmet
In what year did Nintendo reveal the start of development on what would become Twilight Princess?
2003
How long did it take to implement riding horses in a believable manner?
four
What does Link morph into in A Link to the Past?
rabbit
What kind of interface was used for in-game archery?
pointing-based
What console boasted compatibility with the Wii?
GameCube
What kind of movement interfaced with the sword in Twilight Princess?
swinging gesture
What did early users find hard to use about the game?
control scheme
Who wrote the music for Twilight Princess?
Toru Minegishi and Asuka Ohta
What kind of instruments are favored by Kondo?
live
What kind of error was found in Twilight Princess for Wii?
buffer overflow vulnerability
Which company is responsible for the HD version of Twilight Princess?
Tantalus Media
What special item is included with certain versions of Twilight Princess HD?
Wolf Link Amiibo figurine
What company included the soundtrack as a reward for ordering the game prior to release?
GameStop
What kind of scores did Twilight Princess receive from many video game review sources?
perfect
Which publications reported some issues with the graphics of Twilight Princess?
IGN and GameSpy
The version of Twilight Princess fo which console won three IGN awards?
GameCube
What is the name of the area which includes most countries not located in North, Central or South America?
PAL
Who wrote and provided art for a Twilight Princess comic book series?
Akira Himekawa
Which company made Spectre?
Eon Productions
What group is the enemy of the protagonist?
Spectre
On what date was Spectre first shown in the UK?
26 October 2015
On what holiday do insurgents plan to detonate a bomb?
Day of the Dead
Where does Bond go after his suspension?
Rome
What is White suffering from when Bond finds him?
thallium poisoning
What method of transportation is used to get to Oberhauser's base?
train
Where is Bond brought after he is kidnapped?
the old MI6 building
What did SPECTRE originally stand for?
SPecial Executive for Counter-intelligence, Terrorism, Revenge and Extortion
Who ended up with ownership of Spectre?
MGM
What company was targeted by leaks of company information?
Sony Pictures Entertainment
Which actor portrayed Franz Oberhauser?
Christoph Waltz
What is the name of a location in Spectre which draws its inspiration from an Ian Fleming short story?
Hildebrand Rarities and Antiques
When were the actors in Spectre announced?
December 2014
Who did Christoph Waltz portray in Spectre?
Franz Oberhauser
How many actual people were used for the opening sequence of Spectre?
fifteen hundred
Who was the last person to direct two James Bond movies in a row before Mendes?
John Glen
What were three sites used for filming Spectre?
London, Mexico City and Rome
When did Spectre begin production in Austria?
December 2014
What are two landmarks in Rome used in filming Spectre?
Ponte Sisto bridge and the Roman Forum
Where did Spectre filming take place after Rome?
Mexico City
Where did Craig go to deal with his injury?
New York
Which bridges were shut down because of filming?
Westminster and Lambeth Bridges
Which three locations in Morocco were used in filming?
Oujda, Tangier and Erfoud
How much money were possible changes to the Mexico City section of the film rumored to have saved the production?
$20 million
Who wrote the music for Spectre?
Thomas Newman
What was the name of the song played during the opening credits?
Writing's on the Wall
When was the main theme of Spectre made available in digital format?
25 September 2015
Which companies revealed Spectre's official car?
Aston Martin and Eon
Images of what item were posted by Eon while the movie was being made?
clapperboards
What comedy production did Spectre actors appear in?
Comic Relief's Red Nose Day
Where was the first showing of Spectre held?
Royal Albert Hall
How much money had Spectre made by 2/21/2016?
$879.3 million
How much did Spectre make in its first week?
£41.7 million ($63.8 million)
Terrorist activity in what French city impacted Spectre's earnings?
Paris
How many Imax screens showed Spectre on its opening weekend in the US and Canada?
374
On what day and month was Spectre released to the Chinese market?
12 November
What was Metacritics score for Spectre?
60 out of 100
Who gave Spectre a perfect rating in The Daily Telegraph?
Robbie Collin
Which journalist considered Spectre the worst James Bond movie in three decades?
Scott Mendelson
Which Atlantic writer gave a negative review of Spectre?
Christopher Orr
Whic organization is responsible for filtering movie content in India?
Indian Central Board of Film Certification
Christoph Waltz's appearance in future Bond movies is contingent on the appearance of which other actor?
Craig
In what year did the earthquake in Sichuan occur?
2008
Which far away cities in other countries could feel the earthquake?
Beijing and Shanghai
How many people were confirmed dead?
69,197
Where was the epicenter?
Wenchuan County, Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture
On what fault did the earthquake occur?
Longmenshan fault
When was the confidential written report sent to the State Seismological Bureau?
April 30, 2008
How large was the displacement?
up to 9 meters
How many people were killed in the Hanshin earthquake?
6,000 people
How many aftershocks were there?
Between 64 and 104
When did this earthquake occur?
August 30, 2008
Who published the map of the earthquakes intensity?
CEA
Where is the Longmenshan Fault located?
the eastern border of the Tibetan Plateau
Where were office buildings evacuated?
Shanghai's financial district
Where did the reporters say they saw cracks on walls of some buildings?
in Chengdu
How many highways leading into Wenchuan were damaged?
All of the highways
Where were the exchanges based?
southwestern China
What kinds of telecommunications were cut?
mobile and terrestrial
How many base stations did China Mobile have suspended?
2,300
What place could officials not contact?
the Wolong National Nature Reserve
What power plant was damaged?
Hydropower Plant
How many deaths were reported?
69,180
How many survivors were there from Yingxiu?
2,300
What is poor about inland areas such as Sichuan?
Health care
How many school children died due to shoddy construction?
thousands
When did an investigation occur under school casualties?
December 2008
How many people were left without housing?
5 million
Who was a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Georgia Tech?
Reginald DesRoches
What happened days following the disaster?
an international reconnaissance team of engineers was dispatched to the region
What areas were the hardest hit?
the poorer, rural villages
What is an estimate of the economic loss from the quake?
$75 billion
How many buildings collapsed as a result of the May 27th aftershocks?
420,000
Who was the executive vice governor?
Wei Hong
Who flew to the earthquake area 90 minutes after it hit?
Premier Wen Jiabao
What did the National Disaster Relief Commission initiate?
Level II emergency contingency plan
How many people were in the earthquake emergency relief team?
184
What did the China Digital Times report?
a close analysis by an alleged Chinese construction engineer
What was June 1, 2008 called?
Children's Day
How much did central state-owned enterprises donate?
more than $48.6 million
How much did China receive in donated money and goods?
$457 million
What did the State Council establish in 2008?
a counterpart support plan
What was concluded about the construction?
that the sudden shift of a huge quantity of water into the region could have relaxed the tension between the two sides of the fault, allowing them to move apart, and could have increased the direct pressure on it, causing a violent rupture
What did the earthquake allow?
opportunities for researchers to retrofit data in order to model future earthquake predictions
What was stated in the press conference?
that earthquake prediction was a global issue
When was a Seismic Risk Analysis published?
In 2002
How long had it been since an earthquake of similar magnitude?
over 30 years
What department was ready to join the rescue effort by Wednesday?
the Taipei Fire Department
What natural disasters were occurring in Wenchuan County?
landslides
What did Premier Wen Jiabao order?
the deployment of an additional 90 helicopters
What Foundation wanted to aid Beijing?
the Tzu Chi Foundation
Who made a direct chartered cargo flight?
China Airlines
What did the US share?
satellite images of the quake-stricken areas
What was extensively used to pass information to aid rescue and recovery efforts?
The Internet
What was done for the anniversary?
a moment of silence
What was also donated?
blood
How many tents were flown to the region?
557
How many schoolrooms collapsed in the quake?
7,000
What did CCTV-1 host on the evening of May 18th?
four-hour program called The Giving of Love
What did a professor at the Peking University say about the handling of the earthquake?
This is the first time [that] the Chinese media has lived up to international standards
What formed behind blockages?
quake lakes
Where was the most precarious quake lake located?
Mount Tangjia in Beichuan County, Sichuan
Who declared the mourning period?
The State Council
What was suspended for the duration of the mourning period?
Olympic torch relay
What colors did many websites convert their home pages to?
black and white
Who was the principal of Sangzao Middle School? 
Ye Zhiping
Why were the schools inspected?
to gain first-hand material of construction quality
What was given in exchange of signing the document?
money
Who was a Sichuan school teacher?
Liu Shaokun
When did the sentencing occur?
in 2007
What did UNICEF report?
that China formally requested the support of the international community
How much did Yao Ming donate?
$214,000 and $71,000
What did Francis Marcus say of the Chinese relief effort?
swift and very efficient
What did stations replace programming with?
live earthquake footage
What government blocked aid after Cyclone Nargis?
Myanmar
What did parents accuse builders of doing?
cutting corners
Who has ignored the school issue?
state-controlled media
Why are the buildings so shoddily built?
builders cut corners
Who has not been brought to justice?
corrupt government officials
What city in the United States has the highest population?
New York
How many boroughs comprise New York City?
five
What was the trading post that preceded New York City called?
New Amsterdam
How many tourists visited New York in 2014?
56 million
What island was once a part of Long Island?
Staten Island
What was the name of the Lenape homeland?
Lenapehoking
In what year did the first European arrive in the New York area?
1524
In what year did a Spanish expedition visit New York Harbor?
1525
What was the name of the explorer who visited the area in 1609?
Henry Hudson
Where was Juan Rodriguez born?
Santo Domingo
On what island did the Dutch set up a settlement to trade furs?
Governors Island
What did the English call New Amsterdam after its capture?
New York
What was the regnal name of the Prince of Orange?
William III
After what war did the English receive New Amsterdam?
Second Anglo-Dutch War
In 1730, what percentage of New York households were slave-holding?
42%
In what year was John Peter Zenger tried?
1735
What was the biggest battle of the American Revolution?
Battle of Long Island
On what date did the peace conference on Staten Island occur?
September 11, 1776
In what year did New York become the United States capital?
1785
In what year did the state of New York pass a law to free the slaves?
1799
What plan of 1811 spread a grid of streets across Manhattan?
Commissioners' Plan
What was the name of the first urban landscaped park in the United States?
Central Park
What event brought many Irish immigrants to the United States?
Great Irish Famine
Who was the mayor of New York City in 1861? 
Fernando Wood
In what year was the modern City of New York founded?
1898
In what year did the General Slocum disaster occur?
1904
How many non-white people lived in New York in 1890?
36,620
In the early 1920s, what was the second most highly populated city in the world?
London
When was construction finished on the United Nations Headquarters?
1952
The Stonewall riots are named after what building?
the Stonewall Inn
In what year did the population of New York first reach an all-time high in this period?
2000
What was the name of the aircraft that crashed into the World Trade Center's North Tower on September 11, 2001?
American Airlines Flight 11
On what date did the Occupy Wall Street protests commence?
September 17, 2011
What individual established the National Review?
William F. Buckley, Jr.
In what geographical region of the United States is New York City located?
Northeastern
The Hudson River serves as a dividing line between New York and what state?
New Jersey
What Manhattan development is the product of land reclamation?
Battery Park City
What is the total area of New York City in square miles?
468.9
What structure is an example of saltbox architecture?
Pieter Claesen Wyckoff House
How many high-rises were present in New York City in 2011?
5,937
In what year was the Empire State Building completed?
1931
In what borough is the Riverdale neighborhood located?
the Bronx
What event led to the decline in wooden construction in New York City?
the Great Fire of 1835
When did the United States Geological Survey released its seismic hazard analysis?
July 2014
How many of New York's boroughs would be counted among the United States' ten most populated cities if they were independent?
four
What is the name of New York City's climate using the Köppen climate classification?
humid subtropical
What mountains serve as a barrier to keep New York City comparatively warmer in the winter?
Appalachians
In millimeters, how much precipitation does New York receive a year?
1,270
What is the name of the New York City department that operates the park system?
New York City Department of Parks and Recreation
What city was rated as having the best park system by The Trust for Public Land?
Minneapolis
How large is the Gateway National recreation Area in hectares?
10,521.83
What body administers the Ellis Island Immigration Museum?
National Park Service
How many state parks exist in New York City?
seven
New York has approximately how many acres of parks?
28,000
What is the name of the military base in New York City?
Fort Hamilton
What was the population of New York City in 2014?
8,491,079
How many people live in a square mile of New York City?
27,858
What percentage of the city's population is Caucasian?
44%
How many immigrants arrived at Ellis Island from 1892 to 1924?
12 million
What percentage of the population was born outside the United States?
37%
What New York borough contains the highest population of Asian-Americans?
Queens
How many non-Hispanic whites lived in New York City in 2012?
2.7 million
About how many people live in New York City's metropolitan area?
20 million
In 2013, how many people of Puerto Rican ancestry lived in New York City?
1.3 million
How many self-identified LGB people live in the New York metropolitan area?
568,903
What percentage of New Yorkers are Christians?
59%
What is New York City's Gini Coefficient?
0.5
What is the common name for New York's high technology sector?
Silicon Alley
What fraction of New Yorkers in the private sector are employed by foreign companies?
One out of ten
What was the 2015 assessed value of all the property in New York?
US$914.8 billion
What is the popular name of New York's advertising industry?
Madison Avenue
How many New Yorkers work in the food processing field?
19,000
What dollar amount of chocolate does New York export annually?
US$234 million
As of 2013, how many people worked for a securities business in New York?
163,400
On what street is the New York Stock Exchange headquartered?
Wall Street
How many square meters of office space does Manhattan have?
46.5 million
In what borough is Silicon Alley located?
Manhattan
Along with Cornell University, what institution is involved in the building of Cornell Tech?
Technion-Israel Institute of Technology
How many tourists visited New York in 2011?
51 million
What English phrase does I ❤ NY represent?
I Love New York
In what neighborhood does the Halloween Parade take place?
Greenwich Village
About how many hotel rooms are there in Manhattan?
90,000
Approximately how many feature films are made in New York City every year?
200
Along with Warner Music Group, what top three record label is based in New York City?
Sony Music Entertainment
How many people work in the New York publishing industry?
25,000
Along with ABC and NBC, what other major broadcaster is based in New York?
CBS
What is the name of the first public-access TV channel in the country?
Manhattan Neighborhood Network
What city department runs the public school system?
New York City Department of Education
What institution aids in the creation of charter schools in New York?
New York City Charter School Center
About how many students attend schools in the City University of New York system?
half million
What is the largest library in the United States?
The New York Public Library
The largest municipal healthcare in the US is what?
New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation
The public hospital that has been around the longest in the US is what?
Bellevue Hospital
The largest police presence in the US is NYPD with how many people?
35,000
What was the low record for homicides in 2014 in NYC?
328
The first major crime groups in NYC were in the 1820s known as what?
Forty Thieves and the Roach Guards
What is the largest fire department force in the world?
Tokyo Fire Department
New York is home to what largest transportation system in the world?
subway systems
What is the address for The New York City Fire Department headquarters?
9 MetroTech Center
Jazz became popular during which decade in NYC?
1940s
The fashion capital of the world is what city in the US?
New York City
The Broadway Musical began in what decade?
1880s
How many people attended Broadway shows during the 2013-2014 season?
12.21 million
How many restaurants are there in NYC?
24,000
The Brooklyn Dodgers were created in what year?
1882
NYC is known as the Capital of which sport?
Baseball
The New York Giants and the New York Jets place at which stadium in NYC?
MetLife Stadium
There are two hockey teams located in NYC. What are they?
The New York Islanders and the New York Rangers
Which two national basketball teams play in NYC?
the Brooklyn Nets and the New York Knicks
Which borough of New York hosts the US Open Tennis championships?
Queens
A version of baseball played in city streets was nicknamed was in the 1930s?
Stickball
Which subway system is considered the largest in the world?
New York City Subway system
How many minutes does it take the average New Yorker to get to work?
38.4
The busiest bus station in the world in the world is called what?
Port Authority Bus Terminal
The three airports that have the most people come through them in NYC are which?
John F. Kennedy International Airport, Newark Liberty International Airport, and LaGuardia Airport
The world's most popular ferry route is which in NYC? 
The Staten Island Ferry
Which bridge in NYC is the busiest in the world?
The George Washington Bridge
Which tunnel do 120,000 vehicles travel through a day in NYC?
The Lincoln Tunnel
How many daily bicycle riders are there in NYC?
200,000
Who supplies NYC with drinkable water?
Catskill Mountains watershed
How many members are on the NYC city council?
51
Which political party holds the majority of most office terms in NYC?
Democrats
As of 2012, how many physicians were working in New York City?
43,523
How many people are admitted to HHC institutions annually?
225,000
Being exposed to what type of pollution has been theorized to increase aggression?
lead
Who commented on New York that "culture just seems to be in the air, like part of the weather"?
Tom Wolfe
In what borough is the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts located?
Manhattan
What New York thoroughfare is Museum Mile located on?
Fifth Avenue
Along with New Yorkese, what is another name for the New York dialect?
Brooklynese
What sitcom did the Archie Bunker character feature in?
All in the Family
What Major League Soccer franchise is based in New York?
New York City FC
What fraction of United States rail riders call the New York City Metropolitan Area home?
two-thirds
How many rail lines are there on New York City's commuter rail network?
20
How many 24-hour rapid transit systems are located in New York?
three
Along with the East Side Access project and 7 Subway Extension, what heavy-rail project is being built in New York City?
the Second Avenue Subway
About how many yellow cabs operate in New York?
12,000
What industry is Broadway associated with?
the theater
At what time are drivers in New York most likely to experience traffic jams?
rush hour
What island is the borough of Brooklyn located on?
Long Island
What architectural style does the Throgs Neck Bridge reflect?
Structural Expressionism
How many clean diesel and hybrid taxicabs did New York City have in 2010?
3,715
What percent reduction of greenhouse gases does Mayor de Blasio want to see by 2050?
80%
How long is Newtown Creek in kilometers?
6
What type of government does New York City have?
mayor-council
What numbered department of the Supreme Court is located in Brooklyn?
Second
In what borough is the main courthouse of the District Court for the Southern District of New York located?
Manhattan
Four-fifths of the ZIP codes that provide the highest amount of political contributions in the United States are located in what borough?
Manhattan
What is the new name of the Sister City Program of the City of New York, Inc.?
New York City Global Partners
When did To Kill a Mockingbird first get circulated?
1960
To Kill a Mockingbird is widely read in which countries schools?
United States
Who gathered impressions of To Kill a Mockingbird from other authors and famous people?
Mary McDonough Murphy
When did Harper Lee pass away?
February 2016
Who did Harper Lee become childhood friends with?
Truman Capote
The first draft of To Kill a Mockingbird was named what?
Go Set a Watchman
What ailment did Harper Lee's mother suffer from?
mental illness
What date did To Kill a Mockingbird begin to circulate?
July 11, 1960
Where is the setting for To Kill a Mockingbird?
Maycomb, Alabama
What was the name of the woman who was allegedly raped in the book?
Mayella Ewell
What are the names of Atticus Finch's children in the book?
Jem and Scout
Who did Bob Ewell attack during the story?
Jem and Scout
What was the name of the police officer who discovered Bob Ewell's body?
Sheriff Tate
Harper Lee has stated that To Kill a Mockingbird is not what genre of book?
autobiography
Where did Truman Capote live in relation to Lee?
next door
At what age was Lee when a white woman accused a black guy of rape?
10
What two forms of humor are most found in To Kill a Mockingbird?
Satire and irony
Where does Jem trap a fellow peer of school in the story?
church basement
What genre of book is To Kill a Mockingbird typically called?
Southern Gothic and coming-of-age or Bildungsroman novel
What was the name of the neighbor that Jem speaks too after Tom Robinson's trial?
Miss Maudie
When did the Montgomery Bus Boycott take place?
1955
The main jurors in Tom Robinson's trial were all which race?
white
Atticus is tasked with killing what animal in the novel?
a rabid dog
Who does the cooking at the Finch's house?
Calpurnia
Are the Ewell's considered rich or poor?
poor
Mrs. Dubose suffers from an addiction to what?
morphine
Who has written the only biography of Harper Lee?
Charles Shields
Who are the main female role models for Scout during the story?
Calpurnia and Miss Maudie
In the book, which character was expected of molesting their child?
Bob Ewell
Which character is chastised in the book for marrying a black woman?
Dolphus Raymond
Which animal serves as a symbol throughout the book?
Songbirds
Reader's Digest included To Kill a Mockingbird in what program of theirs?
Book of the Month Club
After one year when To Kill a Mockingbird first came out, how many languages has it been printed in?
ten
Public figure's impressions of the novel were formed into a book called what?
Scout, Atticus, and Boo
Atticus Finch's integrity has become a model for which job?
lawyer
What year was a statue of Atticus build in Alabama?
1997
To Kill a Mockingbird was first studied in American schools in what year?
1963
When was the first major controversy that surfaced from the book?
1966
What movement in the '60s did the novel help spark?
civil rights movement
Who was Truman Capote's father?
Archulus Persons
Which year did To Kill a Mockingbird win the Pulitzer Prize?
1961
Which year was Lee awarded an induction into the Alabama Academy of Honor?
2001
Which school granted Lee an honory doctorate in 2006?
University of Notre Dame
A movie adaptation of the book was released in what year?
1962
What item did Lee give the actor Gregory Peck after portraying Atticus Finch?
father's pocketwatch
When did Lee randomly show up at the Los Angeles  Public Library?
May 2005
Who turned the novel into a play?
Christopher Sergel
What country did Sergel's play tour around in and perform in 2006?
the UK
When was Go Set a Watchman introduced to the public?
July 14, 2015
What two serious moral issues are dealt with in the novel?
rape and racial inequality
What is Lee's strongest style of writing?
narration
According to Lee, her book simply expressed a Christian code of honor and conduct inherit to whom?
all Southerners
Besides the children's fascination with Boo, the first part of the book was concerned about their feelings for what?
the neighborhood
Who is the main example of an innocent destroyed in the novel?
Tom Robinson
Reviewer R. A. Dave classified the novel how?
classical tragedy
What newspaper wrote that the novel has strong contemporary national significance?
The Chicago Sunday Tribune
Which reviewer called the book melodramatic and contrived?
Granville Hicks
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie vompared Lee to whom?
William Faulkner
Who criticized Lee in The Wall Street Journal?
Allen Barra
Which character has some critics deemed a variation of a contented slave?
Calpurnia
According to Diane McWhorter, every child in the South had to face what?
the harsh reality of inequality
How do the citizens of Monroeville quote lines of the book?
like Scripture
Where does solar energy come from?
the Sun
How many terawatts of solar radiation does the Earth receive?
174,000
The Earth's oceans cover what percentage of the globe?
71
Each year the Earth absorbs how much solar energy in exajoules?
3,850,000
Where do the majority of renewable energies derive their energy from?
the Sun
Are supply side solar technologies generally active or passive?
Active
What was the name of the inventor who built a solar engine in 1897?
Frank Shuman
Where did Shuman build the world's first solar thermal power station?
Maadi, Egypt
According to Shuman, up to what percentage of domestic hot water can be  provided by solar heating systems?
70
What was the total capacity of solar hot water systems in 2007 in gigawatts?
154
What percentage of energy in commercial buildings comes from HVAC systems?
50
Materials that can be used to store heat are known as what kind of mass?
Thermal
What kind of system is a solar chimney?
passive solar ventilation
The placement of deciduous trees on the Equator facing side of a building can have a negative effect on solar availability in which season?
winter
Horace de Saussure built the first box cooker in what year?
1767
The Solar Total Energy Project had a field of how many parabolic dishes?
114
In what year was a large scale solar distillation project constructed in Las Salinas?
1872
Solar water disinfection is recommended by which organization?
the World Health Organization
What is a possible negative effect of algae in water stabilization ponds?
toxic chemicals
By what year is solar power expected to become the world's greatest source of electricity?
2050
The largest solar power plant in the world is located in what desert?
the Mojave Desert
In the 1880s, who constructed the first solar cell?
Charles Fritts
In all the different CSP systems, concentrated sunlight is used to heat what?
a working fluid
Socrate's what is a classic example of passive solar design?
Megaron House
UHI is an abbreviation of what?
Urban heat islands
During the Little Ice Age, what did English and French farmers use to increase collection of solar energy?
fruit walls
When were the first greenhouses used?
Roman times
What is the name of the solar powered car race held every two years?
The World Solar Challenge
The first practical solar boat was constructed in what year?
1975
What altitude did the Solar Riser reach in feet?
40
What is a possible alternative to making carbon-based fuels from reduction of carbon dioxide?
hydrogen production from protons
What is the name of the process under development at the Weizmann Institute?
The Solzinc process
In what form do thermal mass systems store solar energy?
heat
Paraffin wax is an example of what kind of storage media?
thermal
Where do off-grid PV systems store excess electricity?
rechargeable batteries
When water is released due to high demand, the pump become swhat?
a hydroelectric power generator
The oil embargo in what year was a contributing factor to the reorganization of energy policies?
1973
The solar water heaters introduced in the US in the 1890s saw growth until what time period?
the 1920s
Which organization believes that solar energy can solve some of our most pressing issues?
The International Energy Agency
ISO 9050 relates to standards for what?
glass in building
What are the technologies used to capture solar energy characterized as?
passive solar or active solar
What was the total worldwide energy consumption in 2012?
559.8 EJ
How will solar energy increase energy security?
through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource
Why does the amount of usable solar energy differ from the amount near the planets surface?
geography, time variation, cloud cover, and the land available to humans
Why does geography have an effect of the amount of solar energy available?
areas that are closer to the equator have a greater amount of solar radiation
Why does land availability have an effect on solar energy?
solar panels can only be set up on land that is unowned and suitable for solar panels
What factors were taken into account in the estimate published in 2000 on solar energy?
insolation, cloud cover, and the land that is usable by humans
What is solar power?
conversion of sunlight into electricity
What has influenced the design since the beginning of architectural history?
Sunlight
What is a solar balloon?
a black balloon that is filled with ordinary air
Why was solar technology developed in the 1860s?
driven by an expectation that coal would soon become scarce
According to a report in 2011, by what year could solar energy provide a third of the world's energy?
2060
What are some of the empires and dynasties that have also ruled over this land?
Achaemenid Empire, Sassanian Empire, Hephthalite Empire, Samanid Empire, Mongol Empire, Timurid dynasty, and the Russian Empire
When did Tajiks start being part of the Soviet Army?
1939
How were the different factions distinguished from eachother?
by clan loyalties
Who was stationed along the boarder?
Russian border troops
How many solider were killed in September when Islamic militants escaped?
28 Tajik soldiers
What type of government does Tajikistan have?
a republic
Even though Tajikistan has freedom of the press, what is the problem with it?
independent press outlets remain restricted
What is the smalled nation in the Central Asia area?
Tajikistan
Where did the word Tajik come from?
the name of a pre-Islamic (before the seventh century A.D.) tribe
When was the region under Tibetan empire and the CHinese?
650–680
When did the Russian Empire take over Central Asia?
during the late 19th century's Imperial Era
What did the Jadidists establish themselves as in the late 19th century?
an Islamic social movement throughout the region
Who went to war against Bolshevick armies?
guerrillas throughout Central Asia, known as basmachi
In 1924, what was created as part of Uzbekistan?
Tajik Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic
Who directed the purges of Soviets?
Moscow
What happened in the Feb 2010 election?
PDPT lose four seats in Parliament
Where is Tajikistan located?
in Central Asia
What was the first recorded history of this region?
about 500 BCE
What tribes took control of the region in first centry CE?
Yuezhi tribes
What was the rate that the GDP expanded?
an average rate of 9.6%
Who is trying to attract investments for hydropower in Tajikistan?
the government
What is the average amount lived on per day?
US$1.25 per day
What is raised locally for the domestic market?
opium poppy
What are the majority of transportation options?
via roads, air, and rail.
How many airports does Tajikistan have?
26 airports
What is Tajikistans population as of July 2009?
7,349,145
What people live in the southeast area of the country?
The Pamiri people
What school has been recognized by the government?
Sunni Islam of the Hanafi
What type of religions concerns are there?
minority religious groups undermine national unity
What do religions communities have to register with?
State Committee on Religious Affairs (SCRA) and with local authorities
What is wrong with the health care system in Tajikistan?
, the system remains extremely underdeveloped and poor, with severe shortages of medical supplies
How many years of school are there in the Tajikistan school system?
11 years of primary and secondary education
What is anthropology a study of?
humans and their societies
Vienna created it's society in what year?
1870
What proliferated in the last three decades of the 19th century?
anthropological societies
When did Bronislaw Malinoswki and Franz Boas do their relevant work?
late 19th and early 20th centuries
What fields are forced to confront one another in anthropology?
humanities, social, and natural sciences
What has sociocultural anthropology been heavily influenced by?
structuralist and postmodern theories
What draws together the axes of cultural and social anthropology?
Sociocultural anthropology
What is the attempt to understand other societies on their own terms?
cultural relativism
Why type of anthropology is the study of social organization a central focus of?
Sociocultural
What field studies human's past through material remains?
Archaeology
What problems does linguistic anthropology bring linguistic methods to bear on?
anthropological
What is a cultural phenomenon? 
art
Who used the term anthropology to describe the natural history of man?
Étienne Serres
What is anthropology the intellectual results of?
comparative methods
When did Wallace and Darwin unveil the theory of evolution?
late 1850s.
If Broca were alive today, what would his profession be?
neurosurgeon
How did Waitz define anthropology?
the science of the nature of man
Who was Waitz influential among?
British ethnologists
What did the 20th century see the expansion of anthropology departments into?
majority of the world's higher educational institutions
What type of anthropology tries to understand the social aspects of mass media?
Media anthropology
What type of anthropology concerns itself with the study of photography and film?
Visual
Which branch of anthropology attempts to explain human economic behavior?
Economic
What does political economy in anthropology apply Historical Materialism to?
traditional concerns
What type of anthropology is used to analyse and find solutions to real world problems?
Applied
What perspective does development anthropology view development from?
critical
What can refer to the study of patterns in human cultures?
Kinship
What type of anthropology focuses on a political agenda rather than on contributing to science?
Feminist
What division of anthropology concerns itself with food security?
Nutritional
What subfield of anthropology studies mental processes? 
Psychological
What type of anthology deals with patterns of shared knowledge?
Cognitive
What type of anthropology is interested in the structure of political systems?
Political
What type of anthropology originated as a sub-focus group?
Cyborg
Which sub-specialty of anthropology takes an active role in looking at how humans interact with their environment?
Environmental
How does an someone interested in ethnohistory learn more about cultures and customs?
by examining historical records
What division of anthropology is concerned with poverty?
Urban
What is Anthrozoology also known as?
human–animal studies
What branch of anthropology studies human behavior and the relation between primates?
Evolutionary
What type of anthropology commitment is noticing and documenting genocide?
Ethical
What were Boas' peers doing in the 1940s?
active in the allied war effort
What do groups of anthropologists object to the use of anthropology for benefit of?
the state
Who are anthropologists working with along with other social scientists? 
the US military
What type of anthropologist is interested in human variation?
Biological
How do anthropologists typically like to divide up the world?
relevant time periods and geographic regions
What do some authors state anthropology developed as the study of?
"other cultures
What has become common for social anthropologists to do since the 1980s?
set ethnographic research in the North Atlantic region
What happened to Joseph I in 1758?
wounded in an attempted assassination
In which year was the Count of Oeiras made the Marquis of Pambal?
1770
Under whose occupation did Portugal begin a slow decline?
Napoleon
Portugese and British troops fought against the invasion of which country?
French
When were railroad tracks being installed Portugese Africa?
before the turn of the 20th century
On what day were King Dom Carlos I and and his heir, Prince Royal Dom Luis Filipe, Duke of Braganza, murdered?
1 February 1908
Who led the Estado Novo?
António de Oliveira Salazar
What are three international organizations that Portugal belongs to?
United Nations, the European Union, the Eurozone, OECD, NATO and the Community of Portuguese Language Countries
What was Pelayos' plan?
to use the Cantabrian mountains as a place of refuge and protection from the invading Moors
Why was the Kingdom of Asturias divided?
dynastic divisions of inheritance among the kings offspring
During the internecine struggles, what did the the people of Country of Portugal struggle with?
maintain the autonomy of Galicia with its distinct language and culture (Galician-Portuguese) from the Leonese culture
Who was de Melo's second marriage to?
the daughter of the Austrian Field Marshal Leopold Josef, Count von Daun
What type of natural disaster was the city center of Lisbon designed to resist?
earthquakes
What is the official name of Portugal?
Portuguese Republic
Who were the first inhabitants of Portugal?
The Celts and the Romans
In Portugal, which city was destroyed in the 1755 earthquake?
Lisbon
From what name is Portugal derived?
Portus Cale
In what year did Lusitania become a Roman province?
27 BC
How long did it take the Umayyad Caliphate to defeat the Visigoths?
a few months
What were the governors of the taifas called?
Emir
What are converts to Islam called?
Muwallad or Muladi
Who was the eldest son of Alfonso III and what did he become king of?
García, became king of León
Which years were plagued by the Black Death?
1348 and 1349
What European age did Portugal spearhead?
the Age of Discovery
Did the King's confidence in de Melo increase or decrease?
increased
What were de Melo's greatest reforms?
economic and financial
Until when did the Portuguese government resist decolonization of their overseas territories?
April 1974
What entity governed Portugal until 1976?
Junta de Salvação Nacional
Between which two political ideals did Portugal bounce between?
socialism and adherence to the neoliberal model
What type of climate does Portugal have?
Mediterranean
What type of climate do the archipelagos of the Azores and Madeira have?
subtropical
What two types of forests can be found in Geres?
deciduous and coniferous
What is Laurisilva?
a unique type of subtropical rainforest
How many freshwater fish species can be found in Portugal?
more than 100
For how many years is the Portugal president elected?
five
What two political parties dominate Portugal's government?
Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party
Who is the Head of State of Portugal?
President of the Republic
What group acts as the presidential cabinet?
The Council of Ministers
Portuguese law continues to be a major influence for what?
former colonies and territories
In which year did Portugal decriminalize drug possession?
2001
How many municipalities is Portugal divided into?
308
How many branches make up the Portuguese armed forces?
three
What is the number of personnel in the army?
21,000
In what two major conflicts did Portugal engage in during the 20th century?
World War I and the Portuguese Colonial War
Who headed the government after the bailout was announced?
Pedro Passos Coelho
In which year did the Carnation Revolution take place?
1974
In what two years was there a financial crisis?
2007–08
What currency does Portugal use?
the euro (€)
In which year did the Carnation Revolution take place?
1974
By what entities was the Portuguese economy bailed out?
European Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund
Upon what is Portuguese agriculture based?
small to medium-sized family-owned dispersed units
Which company is the world's oldest canned fish producer?
Ramirez
What mineral is Portugal ranked as a leading European producer of?
copper
What automotive brands exist in Portugal?
Volkswagen Autoeuropa and Peugeot Citroen
Portuguese tourist numbers are expected to do what in the future?
increase
What magazine described Portugal as "a new sick man of Europe?"
The Economist
What did Prime Minister Jose Socrates announce on April 6, 2011?
that the country would request financial assistance from the IMF and the European Financial Stability Facility
In 2005, how many public employees did Portugal have for every thousand inhabitants?
70.8
Who was the Portugal Prime Minister in 2013?
Passos Coelho
To what age did Passos Coelho increase the retirement age?
66
Since when has the Portugal unemployment rate been in a falling trend?
third quarter of 2014
What are the tourist hotspots in Portugal?
Lisbon, Algarve, Madeira, Porto and the city of Coimbra
What prompted transportation improvements in Portugal in the 1970's?
fast economic growth with increasing consumption and purchase of new automobiles
How much land does the Continental Portugal cover?
89,015 km2 (34,369 sq mi)
Into what country does Portugal's railway system expand?
Spain
What are the two subway systems in Portugal?
Lisbon Metro and Metro Sul do Tejo in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area and Porto Metro in the Porto Metropolitan Area
In what type of network are most scientific research studies conducted in Portugal?
R&D units belonging to public universities and state-managed autonomous research institutions
What are two of the large non-state run research institutions in Portugal?
Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciência and the Champalimaud Foundation
What is the name of the largest European aquarium?
Lisbon Oceanarium
What was responsible for creating thousands of scientific, technological, and knowledge-based businesses?
the emergence and growth of several science parks throughout the world
What are the two most considerable sources of renewable energy in Portugal?
wind and river power
What is the name of Portugal's national energy transmission company?
Redes Energéticas Nacionais (REN)
What was the Portuguese population in 2011?
10,562,178
In what group of people do the Portuguese have their origin?
Paleolithic peoples
What is the cornerstone of Portugal's national identity?
colonial history
What percentage of the Portuguese people are Roman Catholic?
81.0%
In what religion do many Portuguese holidays and festivals find their origin?
Christian
On what date did the Battle of Ourique take place?
25 July 1139
What is the official name of Portugal?
Portuguese
From what language is Portuguese derived?
Latin
What is the adult literacy rate in Portugal?
99 percent
Since when have Portuguese universities existed?
1290
When was the Bologna process adopted?
2006
What is the Ministry of Health responsible for?
developing health policy as well as managing the SNS
What do most Portuguese people die from?
noncommunicable diseases
What survey results complement on data on health status?
self-reporting at the household level
Portugal modernized its public cultural facilities during what two decades?
1990s and 2000s
What is the Manueline style also known as?
Portuguese late Gothic
In which period was cinema born?
late 19th century
Who was Luís de Camões?
Adventurer and poet
What is dry cod known as in Portuguese?
bacalhau
What are three examples of fast food dishes in Portugal?
Francesinha (Frenchie) from Porto, and bifanas (grilled pork) or prego (grilled beef) sandwiches
Since when have Portuguese wines garnished international recognition?
since the times of the Romans
What are a couple examples of Summer music festivals held in Portugal?
Festival Sudoeste in Zambujeira do Mar, Festival de Paredes de Coura in Paredes de Coura, Festival Vilar de Mouros near Caminha,
What are some examples of classical pianists from Portugal?
Artur Pizarro, Maria João Pires, Sequeira Costa
In which century did Portugal see the arrival of Modernism?
20th century
What is the most popular sport in Portugal?
Football
What are the three largest sports clubs by popularity in Portugal?
SL Benfica, FC Porto, and Sporting CP
What year was Kanye born?
1977
What was the first label that Kanye produced for?
Roc-A-Fella Records
How many albums has Kanye sold?
32 million
What subject did Kanye's mother teach at her university?
English
Where did Kanye and his mother relocate when he was 10?
Nanjing, China
What was Kanye creating when he was five?
poetry
Where did Kanye receive a scholarship to attend?
American Academy of Art
Who were the beats Kanye made in the 90's originally intended for?
local artists
Kanye produced the third song from the second album of what artist?
Foxy Brown
What label did Kanye begin to work for in 2000?
Roc-A-Fella Records
Although Kanye was achieving fame by producing, what did he actually want to be?
rapper
Who almost picked up Kanye but was ultimately swayed?
Joe Weinberger
What track did Kanye compose and perform while injured from his accident?
Through The Wire
What happened to Kanye's debut album that caused him to remaster most of it?
it was leaked
What place on the Billboard chart did Kanye's album debut at?
2
What kind of ensemble did Kanye hire to work on his second album?
string orchestra
The loss of which award caused Kanye to leave the American Music Awards?
Best New Artist
What band did Kanye tour with for a year?
U2
What was the name of Kanye's third album?
Graduation
Following the loss of his mother, who did Kanye end his long-term relationship with?
Alexis Phifer
What label pushed out Kanye's fourth studio album?
Island Def Jam
What journalist gave "808s and Hearbreak" critical acclimation 4 years after its release?
Matthew Trammell
Where did Kanye's famous mic-grab incident occur at?
2009 MTV Video Music Awards
Where did Kanye base himself to create his next album?
Hawaii
What is the name of Kanye's album released in 2010?
My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy
What festival did Kanye headline in 2011?
Coachella
Where did Kanye begin production on his sixth album?
Paris
What was the name of Kanye's first child with Kim Kardashian?
North
What did Kanye change the title of his next planned album from So Help Me God to?
SWISH
What was the tentative release date announced for Kanye's next studio album?
February 11
What English musician did Kanye cite as one of his biggest inspirations?
David Bowie
What composer did Kanye collaborate with for his second record?
Jon Brion
What was the name of Kanye's third record?
Graduation
What kind of sound did Kanye abandon a rap and hiphop one for with his fourth album?
electropop
What is Kanye's fifth album titled? 
My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy
What did Kanye state that Yeezus was?
a protest to music
What did Kanye announce he would release after acquiring a Grammy in 2005?
clothing line
Form whom was Kanye's 2011 fashion label designed for?
women
What brand struck a deal with Kanye and sparked a new clothing line?
Adidas
What restaurant chain did Kanye aspire to open in his native Chicago?
Fatburger
What did Kanye call the label he founded in 2004?
GOOD Music
What was the goal of Kanye's new creative company DONDA?
to make products and experiences that people want and can afford
What platform was Kanye named  a co-owner of in 2015?
Tidal
With the help of his mom, what foundation did Kanye create early in his career?
Kanye West Foundation
What was the Kanye West Foundation renamed to in 2008?
The Dr. Donda West Foundation
What are some charitable efforts Kanye west has participated in?
100 Black Men of America, a Live Earth concert benefit, World Water Day rally
During what show did Kanye take an opportunity to criticize the efforts of a U.S. President?
A Concert for Hurricane Relief
What happened after Kanye made his controversial statement?
Rick Kaplan cut off the microphone and then cut away to Chris Tucker
How did George W. Bush describe Kanye's controversial statement?
"one of the most disgusting moments" of his presidency
Kanye was criticized by human rights groups for performing in what country?
Kazakhstan
What TV show lampooned one of Kanye's BBC Radio 1 interviews?
Jimmy Kimmel Live!
What president did Kanye comment on as having trouble pushing policies while in office?
Obama
What celebrity knee-deep in controversy did Kanye endorse in a 2016 tweet?
Bill Cosby
To who did Kanye lose the Best New Artist award in 2004?
Gretchen Wilson
What did Kanye believe was a contributing factor in him not opening for the 2007 MTV VMAs?
race
What artist's award reception did Kanye interrupt onstage at the 2009 MTV VMAs?
Taylor Swift
To which artist did Kanye profusely apologize to?
Taylor Swift
Which artist's award reception did Kanye interrupt at the 57th Grammy Awards?
Beck
What award did Kanye capture at the 2015 MTV VMAs?
Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award
For what event was the largest amount of signatures collected in an attempt to keep Kanye from performing at it?
Glastonbury Festival 2015
Kanye's first engagement was to which well-known designer?
Alexis Phifer
How old was Kanye's mother when she died?
58
What talk show did the doctor who performed Donda West's plastic surgery appear on?
Larry King Live
Where was Donda West's funeral?
Oklahoma City
Where did Kanye first speak on his mother's death?
New Zealand
What famous governor signed legislation in honor of Donda West's death?
Arnold Schwarzenegger
What famous stuntman sued Kanye for purported use of his likeness in 2006?
Robert "Evel" Knievel
What was Kanye arrested for in 2008?
felony vandalism
What was Kanye second arrest for?
scuffle involving a photographer outside the famous Tup Tup Palace nightclub in Newcastle
What paparazzi member did Kanye attack at LAX in 2013?
Daniel Ramos
What are Kanye's religious beliefs?
Christian
How is Kanye viewed as a 21st century artist?
among the most critically acclaimed
What overabundance of themes did Kanye criticize early in his career?
homophobia in hip hop
A number of artists have cited Kanye as being what to them?
influential
How many songs has Kanye had that have exceeded 3 million digital sales?
6
How many Grammies has Kanye won as of 2013?
21
How many of Kanye's albums placed on the 2012 Rolling Stone list?
3
Which one of Kanye's albums won The Pitchfork's Album of the Decade (so far) award?
My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy
What President did Kanye West insult on air in 2005?
George W. Bush
What type of religion is Buddhism?
nontheistic
What are the two major branches of Buddhism?
Theravada ("The School of the Elders") and Mahayana ("The Great Vehicle")
What is the goal of Theravada Buddhism?
the attainment of the sublime state of Nirvana
What are the Three Jewels of the Buddhist tradition?
the Buddha, the Dharma (the teachings), and the Sangha (the community)
The Nidānakathā of the Jataka tales of the Theravada is attributed to who?
Nidānakathā of the Jataka tales of the Theravada
Who said "the outline of the life must be true: birth, maturity, renunciation, search, awakening and liberation, teaching, death."?
Michael Carrithers
According to early texts, when was Siddhārtha Gautama born?
fifth century BCE
What was the name of the astrologer who visited Prince Gautama's father?
Asita
What did Śuddhodana do to ensure that his son became a king instead of a holy man?
prevented him from leaving the palace grounds
What was the first thing Gautama did on his spiritual quest?
went to study with famous religious teachers of the day
How old was Gautama when he sat under the Bodhi Tree?
35
What is samsara?
the continual repetitive cycle of birth and death
What does the Sanskrit term Karma translate as?
action, work
In which branch of Buddhism is it believed that there can be no divine salvation or forgiveness for karma?
Theravada Buddhism
What is the process in which beings go through cycles of lifetimes as many forms of sentient life?
Rebirth
Rebirth into the Śuddhāvāsa Worlds or Pure Abodes can only be attained by who?
skilled Buddhist practitioners known as anāgāmis (non-returners)
There is a transitional state between one life and the next according to what branches of Buddhism?
East Asian and Tibetan
What is considered to be central to the teachings of Buddhism?
the Four Noble Truths
What does the first of the Four Noble Truths explain?
the nature of dukkha
What does the second of the Four Noble Truths explain?
that the origin of dukkha can be known
What is the fourth of the Buddha's Four Noble Truths?
The Noble Eightfold Path
Who describes the Noble Eightfold Path as "a mandala of interconnected factors that support and moderate each other."?
Ajahn Sucitto
During his search for enlightenment, Gautama combined what teachings?
the yoga practice of his teacher Kalama with what later became known as "the immeasurables"
When did Gautama Buddha discover the Middle Way?
prior to his enlightenment
What are some of the theories and philosophies produced by Buddhist scholars?
Abhidharma, Buddhist philosophy and Reality in Buddhism
What is the goal of the Buddhist path?
liberation
What is the meaning of impermanence in Buddhism?
all compounded or conditioned phenomena (all things and experiences) are inconstant, unsteady, and impermanent
The term dukkha corresponds to what English terms?
suffering, pain, unsatisfactoriness, sorrow, affliction, anxiety, dissatisfaction, discomfort, anguish, stress, misery, and frustration
What is the third mark of existence in Buddhism?
Not-self (Pāli: anatta; Sanskrit: anātman)
What is the name of the Buddhist doctrine that states that phenomena arise together in a mutually interdependent web of cause and effect?
pratītyasamutpāda, (Sanskrit; Pali: paticcasamuppāda; Tibetan Wylie: rten cing 'brel bar 'byung ba; Chinese: 緣起)
What is the most common application of the concept of pratītyasamutpāda?
the scheme of Twelve Nidānas
What describes the connection between the conditions of cyclic existence?
The Twelve Nidānas
How are sentient beings freed from suffering?
by attaining Nirvana
Nagarjuna's main contribution was the exposition of the concept of what?
śūnyatā
What teaching were criticized by Nagarjuna?
Sarvastivada teachings
What does tathagatagarbha mean?
Buddha-nature
What term means cessation?
Nirvana
What is the term applied to the experience of the awakening of arahants?
Bodhi
What has achieved nirvana and also liberation from delusion?
bodhisattva
What term is used for the complete nirvana attained by the arahant at death?
parinirvana
Who is a fully awakened being who has purified his mind of the three poisons of desire, aversion, and ignorance?
a Buddha
How many Buddhas are considered to have existed in the Pali Canon?
28
A person can awaken from the "sleep of ignorance" by acknowledging the true nature of what?
reality
Nirvana and what term carry the same meaning?
Bodhi
In the Mahayana, who is thought to be an omnipresent being?
Buddha
Buddha's death is seen as an illusion, as he is living in other planes of what?
existence
What is characterized by the deep truts in the "other-power" of Amitabha Buddha
Pure Land
Who is believed to have achieved enlightenment first?
Gautama Buddha
Who believes there are innumerable other Buddhas in other universes?
Mahayana Buddhists
What form of Buddhism has declined to the point where few are capable of following the path?
Pure Land
What does Bodhisattva mean?
enlightenment being
What term means "great vehicle"?
Mahayana
What buddhism encourages everyone to become bodhisattvas?
Mahayana
Which Dalai Lama cites Shantideva's famous saying?
the 14th Dalai Lama
Devotion is an important part of the practice of most what?
Buddhists
Buddhism traditionally incorporates states of what type of absorption?
meditative
Meditation was an aspect of the practice of who?
the yogis
Religious knowledge is also known as what?
vision
What are probably the earliest texts describing meditation techniques?
Buddhist texts
In pre-buddhist early Brahminic texts there is no evidence for what?
meditation
What is the first step in a school of Buddhism?
the Three Jewels
Who presented himself as a model?
Gautama Buddha
What is an action committed through the body and involves intentional effort?
Śīla
What keeps the cultivator from rebirth in the four realms of existance?
keeping the precepts
What does sila refer to?
overall principles of ethical behavior
Precepts are not created as imperatives, but as what?
training rules
Of the eight precepts which one is on sexual misconduct?
third
How many precepts are on the list?
ten
How many basic precepts are there for monastics?
the ten precepts
Regarding the monastic rules, the Buddha reminds his hearers that it is the spirit that what?
counts
Distinctive Vinaya and ethics are contained within what sutra?
Mahayana Brahmajala
In Chinese Buddhism what meditation is more popular?
Zen
What does the word samyaksamadhi mean?
right concentration
What is powerful concentration called?
jhāna
Samatha meditation starts from being mindful of an object or what?
idea
In Buddhism, samatha meditation can calm the what?
mind
In Theravada Buddhism, what is the cause of human existence and suffering?
craving
How many Noble Truths are there?
Four
Initially prajna is attained at a conceptual level by means of listening to what?
sermons
Zen Buddhism is known as what in Korea?
seon
Zen Buddhism is divided into how many main schools?
two
What Buddhist teachings are often full of paradox?
Zen
What type of Buddhism is Tibeto-Mongolian based on?
Mahayana
What time period was the beginning of Buddhism?
second half of the first millennium BCE
Buddhism arose in what area?
Greater Magadha
Movements were influenced by philosophical thought within the Vedic tradition such as what?
in the Upanishads
A criticism the Buddha gave dealing with animals was?
Vedic animal sacrifice
What is in dispute regarding the research into the core of the teachings?
The reliability
A large problem in the study of early Buddhism is the relationship of dhyana and what else?
insight
According the Bronkhorst, intentions and desire are responsible for what?
rebirth
What was the earliest Buddhism type?
dhyana
From which jhana did Buddha gain bodhi?
fourth
What is the Sanskrit form of Nibbana?
Nirvāna
A description of the Buddhist path may have been as simplistic as what term?
the middle way
Authors Bronkhorst and Anderson claim the four truths bacame a substitution for what?
prajna
How many marks of existence reflect Upanishadic influences?
three
The periods of Buddhisma in India is divided into how many periods?
five
Was is the earliest phase of buddhism?
Pre-sectarian
Soon after the parinirvana of Gautama Buddha, what type of council was held?
Buddhist
The Sangha began to break into separte factions after what council?
the Second
The major schism was between the Sthaviras and what other group?
Mahasanghikas
Who gave rise to the Theravada school?
Sthaviras
What is a detailed scholastic reworking of doctrinal material called?
Abhidharma
Which sutras are among the earliest Mahayana sutras?
Prajñāpāramitā
The earliest Mahayana sutra include the very first version of what genre?
Prajñāpāramitā
The ancient buddhist site  in the lower Krsna Valley can be traced to at least what century BCE?
third
There is no evidence that Mahayana ever referred to a separate school of what?
Buddhism
Most of the early extant evidence for the origins of Mhayana comes from what type of translations?
Chinese
What four types of thought developed during the period of late mahayna buddhism?
Madhyamaka, Yogacara, Tathagatagarbha, and Buddhist Logic
Buddhism may have spread quickly because of what Mauryan emperor?
Ashoka
Emissaries were sent to various countries to what direct from India?
west
The gradual spread of Buddhism exposed it to a variety of influences including what civilization?
Persian and Greek
The Theravada school spread south from india in what century BCE?
3rd century
When was the first documented translation efforts by foreign Buddhist monks in China?
2nd century CE
Mahayana Sutras spread to China during what century?
2nd century CE
China and India are now starting to fund what type of shrines in various Asian countries?
Buddhist
What is the Dharma?
the teachings of the Buddha
When did a number of modern movement in Buddhism emerge?
second half of the 20th Century
What Buddhism emerged in the second half of the 20th century in Japan?
Nichiren Buddhism: Soka Gakkai
What religion is practiced by an estimated 488 to 535 million people?
Buddhism
What country has the largest population of Buddhists?
China
How may adherents does Mahayana have?
360 million
How many Buddhists were there in 1910?
138 million
What does Hinayana mean in English?
lesser vehicle
Each tradition has its own core what?
concepts
What is the oldest surviving Buddhist school?
Theravada
Where is there a growing presence of Theravada?
the west
What type of Buddhists believe that personal effort is required to realize rebirth?
Theravadin
What was the most important Mahayana centre of learning?
Nālandā University
Mahayana schools recognize all or part of what?
Mahayana Sutras
Native Mahayana buddhism is also called what?
Eastern Buddhism
The royal courts sponsored both Buddhism and what?
Saivism
There is a great variety of what type of scripture?
Buddhist
Unlike most religions, Buddhism has no single central what?
text
In Sri Lanka, what was determined to be the best unifying scripture?
Dhammapada
Goddard collected mainly what type of Buddhist scripture?
Zen
What means "three baskets"?
Pāli Tipitaka
What is the only Tipitaka to survive intact in its original language?
Pāli Tipitaka
Which monk presided after the death of the Buddha?
Mahākāśyapa
Much of the material in the Canon is not specifically what?
Theravadin
What are considered the original teachings of the Buddha?
Mahayana sutras
What sutras are reserved for those who follow the bodhisattva path?
Mahayana
What sutras were transmitted in secret?
Mahayana
How many Mahayana sutras have survivied in Sanskrit or in Chinese or Tibetan translations?
six hundred
When did Mahayana sutras start to influence the behavior of mainstream buddhists in India?
after the 5th century CE
What school does not include the Mahayava scriptures in its canon?
the Theravada
The mahayana occasionally referred to early Buddhism as what?
Hinayana
What provides chances for comparative study with a large range of subjects?
Buddhism
What school of thought is questioned on whether or not it is a religion?
Buddhism
Who is the creator of American Idol?
Simon Fuller
What record producer was an original judge on American Idol?
Randy Jackson
How many Billboard hits did American Idol produce in its first ten years?
345
What year did FOX announce that American Idol was cancelled?
2015
What show in New Zealand was the inspiration for the British Series Pop Idol?
Popstars
For how many seasons was American Idol the most watched show in the US?
seven
For how many seasons were the three original judges on American Idol?
eight
Who was added as a fourth judge in the eighth season of American Idol?
Kara DioGuardi
In what season was Lionel Richie a guest judge on American Idol?
season two
Who was the only host of American Idol after season one?
Ryan Seacrest
Who was a mentor to the contestants on American Idol in its thirteenth season? 
Randy Jackson
What is the upper age limit for contestants on American Idol?
twenty-eight
How many auditions are there before contestants audition for the judges?
at least three
Which season did not have a group round in Hollywood?
seven
In what city did contestants perform an additional round in seasons ten and eleven?
Las Vegas
How many text message votes were there in season eight?
178 million
How many finalists were there on the first season of American Idol?
ten
How many semi-finalists were there in season 4?
twenty-four
How many wildcards were chosen by the judges in season eight?
four
Where studio hosts the live final rounds on American Idol?
CBS Television City
In what season was the "Judges Save" introduced to give contestants a second chance?
eight
In which season was the "Fan Save" first used?
fourteen
What venue was the American Idol season seven finale held at?
the Nokia Theatre
Which company manages the winners of American Idol?
19 Management
What is given to contestants who make it past the audition round?
a golden ticket
In which season were contestants first allowed to use musical instruments?
seven
What network aired the first season of American Idol?
Fox
How many contestants made it past the first round of auditions?
121
What year did Kelly Clarkson win?
2002
What was the fist song released by Kelly Clarkson after winning American Idol?
A Moment Like This
What year did season two of American Idol first air?
2003
Which judge did Corey Clark claim to have had an affair with?
Paula Abdul
Who was the season two winner of American Idol?
Ruben Studdard
What is the first song that Ruben Studdard released after winning American Idol?
Flying Without Wings
What year did the third season of American Idol first air?
2004
What were the three black female contestants on season three of American Idol commonly referred to as?
the Three Divas
Who was the runner up on the third season of American Idol?
Diana DeGarmo
Who got a spot in the top 12 after Mario Vasquez dropped out?
Nikko Smith
During what week was there a problem with voting?
top 11 week
What year did Carrie Underwood win American Idol?
2005
Which season of American Idol stands out for having the highest ratings?
Season five
Which contestant did the band Fuel ask to be their new lead singer?
Chris Daughtry
Who was the winner American Idol in 2006?
Taylor Hicks
Which season five contestant has had the most success after the show?
Chris Daughtry
What year did the sixth season of American Idol first air?
2007
Who was the most discussed singer in American Idols sixth season?
Sanjaya Malakar
What was the name of the charity event on season six of American Idol?
Idol Gives Back
Who was the winner of American Idols sixth season?
Jordin Sparks
What year did season four of American Idol first air?
2005
In what year did American Idol begin a contest to decide the winners single?
2007
What year did season seven of American Idol first air?
2008
What song did David Cook sing on American Idol during the week of the top ten?
Billie Jean
Which contestant sang "Imagine" on season seven of American Idol?
David Archuleta
Who won season seven of American Idol?
David Cook
What was the name of the first song released by David Cook after winning American Idol?
The Time of My Life
What year did the eighth season of American Idol first air?
2009
Who was brought in as a new judge during American Idols eighth season?
Kara DioGuardi
How many finalists were there on season eight of American Idol?
13
Who were the final two contestants on season eight of American Idol?
Kris Allen and Adam Lambert
What was the name of the song that Kris Allen and Adam Lamber released after American Idol?
No Boundaries
What year did season nine of American Idol first air?
2010
Which contestant had to go to the hospital during the week of the top 20?
Crystal Bowersox
Which contestant was saved by the judges in season nine of American Idol?
Michael Lynche
Who had their final season in the show in season nine?
Simon Cowell
Who was the winner of American Idols ninth season?
Lee DeWyze
What year did season ten of American Idol first air?
2011
What was the first season of American Idol to feature online auditions?
Season ten
Which contestant had a fiancé that had suffered brain damage?
Chris Medina
What contestant came in ninth on season ten of American Idol?
Pia Toscano
What genre of music did season ten American Idol contestant Lauren Alaina sing?
country
In what year did American Idol first air its eleventh season?
2012
Which season 11 contestant had to go to the hospital before the Top 13 Results?
Phillip Phillips
Which contestant was saved by the judges on season 11 of American Idol?
Jessica Sanchez
What former contestant did Ace Young ask to marry him?
Diana DeGarmo
What is the first song that Phillip Phliips released after winning American Idol?
Home
What year did season 12 of American Idol first air?
2013
How many girls were in the top 10 on season 12 of American Idol?
five
Who was the winner of American Idols twelfth season?
Candice Glover
Which long time judge decided to leave his position at the end of the season?
Randy Jackson
What year did season 13 of American Idol first air?
2014
Which contestant was saved by the judges after getting the least votes on season 13 of American Idol?
Sam Woolf
Who won season 13 of American Idol?
Caleb Johnson
What year did American Idol first air its fourteenth season?
2015
How many episodes did American Idol have each week of the top ten?
one
Who won American Idols fourteenth season?
Nick Fradiani
What year did Fox announce the cancellation of American Idol?
2015
As of 2012, how many finalists did American Idol have? 
131
How many CDs from American Idol contestants had been sold at the beginning of 2010? 
47 million
Who won season five of American Idol? 
Taylor Hicks
What does the acronym WGWG stand for? 
White guy with guitar
What company are contestants required to sign a contract with on American Idol?
19 Entertainment
Who won season two of American Idol? 
Ruben Studdard
What is the name of the special that raises money for charities on American Idol?
Idol Gives Back
What year did American Idol being to air on television? 
2002
How many people watched the first episode of American Idols second season? 
26.5 million
Which season premier of American Idol was the most watched?
Season six
During which season of American Idol did Fox beat the other networks in ratings for the first time? 
season seven
Which television network aired the Winter Olympics in 2010? 
NBC
What was the average age of American Idols viewers in its first season? 
32.1
For how many years was American Idol the top rated show on television? 
eight
How many people on average watched season 12 of American Idol? 
13.3 million
What drink company ended its relationship with American Idol during season 14?
Coca-Cola
For how many years was American Idol the highest rated reality show on television?
9
For how many years was Fox the highest rated network with young adults because of American Idol? 
8
What dancing show featuring celebrities has been helped by American Idol?
Dancing with the Stars
What show helped launched the career of Kelly Clarkson? 
American Idol
How many number one Billboard singles were released by American Idol contestants in the shows first decade? 
345
How many albums have been sold by American Idol contestants up until 2013?
59 million
Which American Idol contestant won an Oscar for Dreamgirls? 
Jennifer Hudson
What publication does Ken Tucker work for? 
Entertainment Weekly
What publication does Michael Slezak write for?
Entertainment Weekly
What famous singer declined an offer to be a judge on American Idol after having been a mentor? 
Elton John
Which music genre has had the most success from American Idol? 
country
How many nominations has American Idol received for Outstanding Reality Competition Program?  
9
How much money did American Idol make in 2004?
$900 million
In which season did American Idol become the costliest show for advertising on television? 
season four
In which season did Coca-Cola become a sponsor of American Idol? 
season one
What service did AT&T promote on American Idol as a way of voting? 
text-messaging
Which major drink manufacturer decided at the beginning of American Idol not to be a sponsor? 
PepsiCo
Which season of American Idol had the highest profit on its tour?
season five
When did iTunes become a sponsor on American Idol? 
season seven
What company has the right to all recordings from contestants on American Idol?
19 Recordings
What company has a them park attraction known as The American Idol Experience? 
The Walt Disney Company
How many different countries air American Idol on television? 
over 100
What network in Italy aired American Idol in season twelve? 
La3
Producers have been accused of planting what within the show?
ringers
How many consecutive years was American Idol the top rated show?
seven
What is the three word Latin name for domesticated dogs?
Canis lupus familiaris
What decade had significant studies of dog genes to determine origins?
2010s
What is the most common phrase, or nickname, used by people in the United States to describe dogs in general?
man's best friend
What is the Proto-Germanic word that "dog" may have come from?
dukkōn
What was the common 14th-century word for dogs for those who spoke English?
hound
What are a single birth group of puppies of a dog called collectively?
a litter.
What is the Latin term for "dog.?"
Canis
What year was it decided that if wolves and dogs were one species, then their scientific name is the name of the wild variety?
2003
What indicated dogs and gray wolves developed as two monophyletic clades?
genetic studies
Modern dogs likely began when human beings were considered to be what?
hunter-gatherers
What species shows more difference in size, looks and actions than any other?
Modern dog breeds
Dogs show an extreme range in what two characteristics?
height and weight.
Which coat is more common with dogs living in colder climates?
double
When a dog has a camouflage pattern on its coat, this is called what?
countershading
What part of a dog can be straight, curly or cork-screwed?
tails
What are some dogs prone to?
genetic ailments
Some foods that are okay for people to eat are what to dogs?
toxic
Mutts, dogs that have several breed characteristics, live how much longer than purebred dogs?
1.2 years
What is the median lifespan of canines?
10 to 13 years.
What is the canine breed with shortest median lifespan?
Dogue de Bordeaux
What is the average length of years of life for canines with long lifespans?
14 to 15 years.
How many times per year do female dogs go into heat?
two
How long do female dogs carry before delivering puppies?
58 to 68 days
What is it called when an animal is altered to prevent procreation?
Neutering
Hypersexual behavior in male dogs is diminished by what?
Neutering
What is the name of the dog that could ID over 200 things?
Rico
Dogs are estimated to be domesticated as far back as what date range of years on the calendar?
9,000–30,000 years BCE
What is gustatory communication include in dogs?
scents, pheromones and taste
Which typically has thicker skin, dogs or wolves?
dogs.
Instead of genetic traits for production, dogs are bred for what?
behaviors.
What is the larger count for numbers of dogs considered to populate the planet?
525 million
Like wolves, big domesticated dogs are considered what type of predator?
apex
What large cat has a particular taste for dogs no matter how big the dog is?
leopards.
Dogs exhibit carnivore as well as what other type of dietary behavior?
omnivores
The majority of dog breeds have only been around for how long?
a few hundred years
Natural selection and what makes certain dogs behave certain ways?
selective breeding
The methods kennel clubs used to classify dogs is what?
unsystematic.
What is one of the complex behaviors pet dogs have gotten from wolves?
bite inhibition
Dogs had a worth to what type of early humans?
hunter-gatherers
What did dogs clean up to help with keeping habitations of people clean?
food scraps.
What type of hunting is it called when humans and dogs hunt together?
cooperative hunting
What type of working dog may have been the reason so many humans were able to get into North America 12,000 tears ago?
sled dogs
A grave from 12,000 BC was found to contain an older person and what else?
puppy
Shaping dogs to what people want is called what?
commodification
It is easy to turn a canine into the perfect companion because so much of what is available?
commodity forms
How do most people describe the relationship with their dogs?
part of the family
A study showed that a task dogs do is bringing in what from the lawn?
newspaper
The National Pet Owner Survey reported how many people had pet dogs in America between 2009 and 2010?
77.5 million
What type of imaging was used to study the relationship between humans and dogs?
magnetic resonance imaging
What nickname have dogs earned for their relationship to humans?
man's best friend
What kind of dogs help people with physical or mental disabilities?
Service dogs
What are conformation shows also known as?
breed shows
Where do some people eat dogs?
East Asian countries
What is the best known Korean dish made with dog meat?
gaejang-guk
How many people are bitten by dogs every year in America?
4.5 million
According to a Colorado study, dog bites are what in children as compared to adults?
less severe
In addition to dogs, what other animal is responsible for over 86,000 falls every year?
cats
What is the common name of the species that causes Toxocariasis?
dog roundworm
What year did a publication come out indicating having a pet does not mean lower risk of heart disease in the elderly?
2005
People with dogs get more of what than people with cats or no animals?
exercise
What do humans get exposed to with pets that may help them not get sick?
immune-stimulating microorganisms
Dogs were taken where to help people with mental disorders socialize?
mental institutions
What can trained dogs detect by sniffing a person or a sample of their urine?
diseases
What is the name of the dog with three heads in Greek mythology?
Cerberus
In Hindu mythology, what do the two dogs who are owned by the god of death watch over?
the gates of Naraka.
How are dogs viewed in Islam?
as unclean
What do dogs represent to Christians?
faithfulness.
Three Asian countries see dogs as what?
kind protectors.
Thousands of years ago, dogs were depicted on the walls of what?
caves.
Dogs can have the same health issues as who?
humans
Which dog is not able to mount a female dog?
Male French Bulldogs
When these feral dogs are approached by a person, they tend to do this 52% of the time?
run away
What would wolves have gotten from living with humans?
significant benefits
What has likely led to human success?
the domestication of dogs
Studies that people are better off with dogs have been criticized for being what?
poorly controlled
When did the tradition of people carrying the Olympic torch before the Olympic games begin?
1936 Summer Olympics.
What day was the Olympic torch lit for the 2008 games?
March 24
How many people protested on the San Francisco torch route?
hundreds
Who condemned the various attacks on the torch relay route?
the Chinese government
Who is the president of the International Olympic Committee?
Jacques Rogge
The international torch relay was canceled for what event in June 2008?
Paralympic Games
What is the Chinese design used on the Olympic Torch?
Lucky Cloud
When it was necessary for the Olympic Torch to be on an airplane, which one was used?
a chartered Air China Airbus A330
How many continents did the torch visit?
six
On what date did the Olympic Flame get lit?
March 24, 2008
Action was taken to boycott which company?
Carrefour
In what publication were Chinese people asked to be orderly and legal because of the protests and demonstrations?
People's Daily
What virgin site did the torch visit on April 2?
Almaty
When was the torch in Istanbul?
April 3
When did the torch arrive in Saint Petersburg?
April 5
Which city hosted the 2012 Summer Olympics?
London
How many torchbearers took part in the London route?
80
When did the torch relay in Paris occur?
April 7
Who threw a a Tibetan flag from a City Hall window?
Green Party officials.
Which organization planned several protests?
Reporters Without Borders
Where did hundreds of pro-Tibet protesters meet?
the Trocadéro
What did the political parties request a brief stop in?
the National Assembly's session
What did French police take from demonstrators?
Tibetan flags
Where did the torch start it's North American route?
San Francisco
Who approved a resolution concerning human rights on April 1, 2008?
San Francisco Board of Supervisors
Three protester climbed what to hang two banners on April 7, 2008?
Golden Gate Bridge
Where did the first relay runner disappear to with the torch??
a warehouse
When did the Olympic torch relay begin in Buenos Aires?
April 11
What is the name of the activist who promised peaceful protests?
Jorge Carcavallo
Who was the outreach director of HRTR?
Susan Prager
Where was the only African destination for the torch?
Dar es Salaam
Which Middle East location was the only area the torch visited?
Muscat
When did the torch arrive in Islamabad?
April 16
When did the torch visit New Delhi?
April 17
The security given to the torch relay in New Delhi is reminiscent of the security of what?
Republic Day celebrations
How many people comprised the Tibetan exile community?
150,000
Who did not want to participate in the relay as 'caged woman'?
Kiran Bedi
When did the Olympic torch reach Bangkok?
April 18
When did the torch visit Malaysia?
April 21
Which supporters protested near the Chinese embassy in Malaysia?
Falun Gong
When did the Olympic torch visit Jakarta?
April 22
When did the torch arrive in Canberra?
April 24
Who did the Chinese want to deploy to Canberra to protect the flame?
People's Liberation Army personnel
Who withdrew as a torchbearer because of her concerns about human rights?
Lin Hatfield Dodds
Who was the head of the Canberra torch relay committee?
Ted Quinlan
Who hosted the 1998 Winter Olympics?
Nagano
Where was the torch relay event held in South Korea?
Seoul
When did the torch arrive in Pyongyang?
April 28
The United Nations Organization and UNICEF felt the relay could be used as what?
a propaganda stunt.
When did the torch arrive in Vietnam?
April 29
How many people protesting China were arrested in Hanoi prior to the rally?
seven
When did the torch arrive in Hong Kong?
May 2
What did Hong Kong Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements in China members wave to symbolize democracy?
plastic Olympic flames
Which group did Jens Galschiøt lead?
The Color Orange democracy group
When did the torch visit Macao?
May 3
A Macau citizen was arrested for posting a plea to disrupt the relay on what website?
cyberctm.com
After its April departure, when did the torch return to China?
May 4
The Chinese coverage of torch relay events has been accused by Western reporters as being what?
partial and censored
What did the Chinese media focus on as far as human rights protesters?
the more disruptive protesters
Xinhua and CCTV focused on people who what?
condemned the protests
Though several torchbearers withdrew from the torch relay, the official website for China stated that Indian torch participants vowed to run for what?
spirit of Olympics
Which United Kingdom newspaper published a Chinese ambassador's opinion that Western media had demonized China with torch coverage?
The Daily Telegraph
 Who did Xinhua accuse of biased reporting on April 17?
CNN
What article did BBC put out about China just days earlier?
The challenges of reporting in China
Who published "Overseas Chinese rally against biased media coverage" on April 20?
People's Daily
What was the Chinese government reported running on April 4?
an anti-CNN website
How many attendants accompanied the flame during it's travels?
30
Which French company was boycotted?
Carrefour
The Chinese government tried to tamper the boycott, trying to avoid a similar outcome to which protests in 2005?
anti-Japanese protests
Who was the mayor of Nagano?
Shoichi Washizawa
In what is the torch flame kept lit when the torch must be off?
lanterns.
Who was Michael Mak Kwok-fung?
Hong Kong legislator
Which athlete did the official website call an angel?
Jin Jing
How many additional teams will help with the Mainland China route?
Two
Despite its imperfection, what are now considered valuable achievements of Principia Mathematica?
the book popularized modern mathematical logic and drew important connections between logic, epistemology, and metaphysics
What is the origin of the title of the book?
The essay from which Aims of Education derived its name was delivered as an address in 1916
What did Whitehead believe regarding the variety of subjects in education?
Whitehead advocated teaching a relatively few important concepts
What was the extent of Whitehead's education in philosophy?
he never had any formal training in philosophy beyond his undergraduate education
What quotation of Whitehead's was noted by a student in 1927?
"Every scientific man in order to preserve his reputation has to say he dislikes metaphysics. What he means is he dislikes having his metaphysics criticized."
What Cartesian concept did Whitehead believe to be erroneous?
reality is fundamentally constructed of bits of matter that exist totally independently of one another
How did Whitehead define the "fallacy of misplaced concreteness"?
By assuming that enduring objects are the most real and fundamental things in the universe, materialists have mistaken the abstract for the concrete
What did Whitehead believe were essentially the only things that truly exist?
discrete "occasions of experience" that overlap one another in time and space, and jointly make up the enduring person or thing
Why did Whitehead think people continued to subscribe to materialistic thinking?
it is easy and convenient to think of people and objects as remaining fundamentally the same things
What is the general materialistic view of an object?
Each object is simply an inert clump of matter that is only externally related to other things
How does Whitehead characterize anything that exists?
in some sense nothing more and nothing less than the sum of its relations to other entities – its synthesis of and reaction to the world around it
In what areas of the world has interest in Whitehead's work spread in recent decades?
Europe and China
Where were the first followers mainly found?
at the University of Chicago's Divinity School
Where is interest in Whitehead's work growing the fastest today?
China
what is an example of Whitehead's ideas being counter-intuitive?
his assertion that matter is an abstraction
What philosophy is closely related to process philosophy?
American pragmatism
How was Whitehead's theory of gravitation received?
It has been severely criticized
What award did Cobb and Daly receive for the book?
Grawemeyer Award for Ideas Improving World Order
Who established the FEELS model in China?
Xie Bangxiu
What prominent business professor has been heavily influenced by Whitehead?
Mark Dibben
During which decade did Whitehead's focus start shifting away from mathematics?
1910s
Where was Alfred North Whitehead born?
Ramsgate, Kent, England
In which educational system was Whitehead employed in the late 1910s?
University of London system
Who authored Whitehead's biography that is considered to be the most reliable description of Whitehead's life?
Victor Lowe
What was Whitehead's first published book on mathematics?
A Treatise on Universal Algebra
What did Lie algebras and hyperbolic quaternions demonstrate a need for?
the need to expand algebraic structures beyond the associatively multiplicative class
How long did Whitehead and Russell expect to spend creating Principia Mathematica?
a year
What is the general opinion of the difficulty level of Whitehead's work in philosophy?
generally considered to be among the most difficult to understand in all of the western canon
What affect did Matthews' opinion of the difficulty of Whitehead's works have on his interest in them?
Mathews' frustration with Whitehead's books did not negatively affect his interest
How has "Process and Reality" been described? 
"arguably the most impressive single metaphysical text of the twentieth century,"
What did Whitehead believe regarding creativity?
creativity is the absolute principle of existence
What is the origin of the word "prehension"?
comes from the Latin prehensio, meaning "to seize."
How do the senses affect causal efficacy?
unmediated by the senses
Which concept does Whitehead state is more dominant in a lower mentality?
causal relationships
What observation did Whitehead make about life?
"life is comparatively deficient in survival value."
What was Whitehead's description of God?
"the brief Galilean vision of humility"
What was Whitehead's belief about God in relation to religion?
God is not necessarily tied to religion
How does Whitehead define he consequent nature of God?
God's reception of the world's activity
In what way did Whitehead view God as deficient?
deficient in actuality and change
What did Whitehead believe was the basis of religion?
individual
In what state did Whitehead believe religion began?
solitariness
Where has interest outside of those areas mainly come from?
through the work of his students and admirers rather
In what field of study has Whitehead's work been most influential in the United States?
American progressive theology
What aspect of God is usually emphasized in process theology?
God's relational nature
What subjects has John B. Cobb, Jr. written books on other than process theology?
biology and economics
What was Whitehead's technical definition of religion?
"an ultimate craving to infuse into the insistent particularity of emotion that non-temporal generality which primarily belongs to conceptual thought alone."
What is Mary Parker Follett known for?
pioneer in the fields of organizational theory and organizational behavior
What did many asset managers decide to do to the detriment of their clients?
continue to invest client funds in over-priced (under-yielding) investments
Who was Southern California-based IndyMac a spin-off of?
Countrywide Financial
When did Moody's and Standard & Poor downgrade a significant number of IndyMac's MBS bonds?
April 2008
Who is the Senator that asked FDIC if it had considered ordering IndyMac to reduce its reliance on brokered deposits?
Charles Schumer (D-NY)
How much in deposits did account holders withdraw from IndyMac in late June 2008?
$1.55 billion
What was the name of the bridge bank established to assume control of IndyMac Bank's assets, liabilities and deposit accounts?
IndyMac Federal Bank, FSB
How many mortgage lenders went bankrupt during 2007 and 2008?
Over 100
The equivalent of a bank run on which funds occurred in September 2008?
money market funds
Economist Paul Krugman explained the credit crisis via the implosion of which system?
shadow banking system
How much of the U.S. lending mechanism was frozen until June 2009?
nearly one-third
How much net worth did Americans lose between June 2007 and November 2008?
more than a quarter
According to economist Dean Baker, a homeowner who has no equity if this type default risk?
serious
In 2008, what type collapse was feared?
global economic collapse
According to The Brookings Institution report in June 2009, how much growth did U.S. consumption account for between 2000 and 2007?
more than a third
What is the growth forecast for Cambodia in 2009?
close to zero
What area of the world was less severely affected by the credit crunch according to The World Bank report In February 2009?
Arab World
What was the U.S. unemployment rate in October 2009?
10.1%
Critics argue that Basel III doesn't address which problem?
faulty risk-weightings
When did the U.S. recession that began in December 2007 end?
June 2009
Who led global economic growth after the financial crisis?
"emerging" and "developing" economies
Who believed that the growth of the commercial real estate bubble indicated that U.S. housing policy was not the cause of the crisis?
Krugman
What is one investment assigned safe ratings by the credit rating agencies?
collateralized debt obligation
What is the name of the securities that enabled financial institutions to obtain investor funds to finance subprime?
collateralized debt obligation
How much had average U.S. housing prices declined by September 2008?
over 20%
Was was the federal funds rate target lowered to by the Federal Reserve in 2003?
1.0%
Per Bernanke, how much did the U.S. current account deficit increase between 1996 and 2004?
$650 billion
When did the Fed begin raising Fed funds rate significantly?
July 2004
Richard M. Bowen III testified to the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission regarding his tenure at which financial institution?
Citigroup
Who was the largest residential loan due diligence and securitization surveillance company?
Clayton Holdings
What is the name for lending that entices borrowers to enter into unsafe secured loans?
Predatory lending
Who sued Countrywide for unfair business practices and false advertising?
California Attorney General Jerry Brown
What economist believed that regulations did not keep up with financial innovation?
Paul Krugman
What did financial institutions do prior to the crisis?
became highly leveraged
How many U.S. investment banks significantly increased their financial leverage from 2004 to 2007?
five
What is an example of something that can be detrimental if too many individuals pursue the same behavior?
saving more during adverse economic conditions
Who was the U.S. Federal Reserve vice-chair in April 2009?
Janet Yellen
What term refers to the ongoing development of financial products?
financial innovation
When did the issuance of CDO peak?
Q1 2007
Which products created more complexity in the financial markets?
innovative financial products
What is a measurement of pricing of risk?
interest rates or fees
What did market participants fail to measure accurately?
risk inherent with financial innovation
What firm insured obligations of various financial institutions using credit default swaps?
AIG
Who commented that the super-boom got out of hand when products became so complicated that risk could not be accurately calculated?
George Soros
Who published "Credit Correlation: Life After Copulas" in 2007?
World Scientific
Who was President and CEO of the New York Federal Reserve Bank in June 2008?
Timothy Geithner
When did the securitization markets supported by the shadow banking systems start to close down?
spring of 2007
What economist testified to the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in January 2010?
Mark Zandi
Following the collapse in the housing bubble, what happened to a number of commodity prices?
Rapid increases
Who was the former director of the CFTC that testified before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation on June 3, 2008?
Michael Greenberger
Who is one of the feminist economists that believe the financial crisis revealed a crisis of mainstream economics and call for a complete reshaping of the economy?
Ailsa McKay
Who was the current Governor of the Reserve Bank of India that predicted the crisis in 2005?
Raghuram Rajan
Who was one of the only mainstream economist to predict the financial crisis?
Raghuram Rajan
Which magazine ran a cover story claiming that most economists failed to the the financial crisis?
BusinessWeek
Who wrote the 2007 book The Black Swan?
Nassim Nicholas Taleb
Who is the market strategist that believes distinctions exist between the current crisis and the Great Depression?
Phil Dow
Which medium sized British bank was the first victim of the financial crisis?
Northern Rock
IndyMac often made loans without verifying what?
the borrower’s income
How many of the poorest families did not have any wealth decline during the financial crisis?
half
On November 3, 2008, who predicted extremely weak GDP growth for the Eurozone in 2009?
European Commission at Brussels
What have central banks around the world done to avoid the risk of a deflationary spiral?
expand money supplies
What brought the global financial system to the brink of collapse?
credit freeze
What was introduced by President Barack Obama in June 2009?
a series of regulatory proposals
When did the U.S. Senate first pass a financial reform bill?
May 2010
What action in 2007 by national governments prevented the collapse of large financial institutions?
bailout of banks
What year did the U.S. housing bubble peak?
2004
What is the name of the U.S. Senate report giving their conclusions for the cause of the crisis?
Levin–Coburn Report
What are MBS as related to the housing and credit booms?
mortgage-backed securities
How much are total losses estimated to be from falling home prices?
trillions of U.S. dollars
What institutions comprise the shadow banking system?
investment banks and hedge funds
Some regulated banks did not have sufficient financial cushions in place to absorb what losses as a result of the financial crisis of 2007?
MBS
When did the U.S. Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission report its findings?
January 2011
What caused mortgage lenders to relax underwriting standards and approve riskier mortgages?
tough competition
How many Democratic appointees wrote the majority report of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission?
six
How many estimated substandard loans did Fannie and Freddie have in 2008? 
13 million
Who uncovered accounting discrepancies in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac?
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight (OFHEO)
What was the value of mortgage lending made by Community Reinvestment Act covered lenders to low and mid level income borrowers and neighborhoods from 1993-1998?
$467 billion
When did CRA make rule changes to relax underwriting standards?
1995
What financial innovation enabled investment banks and hedge funds to make large wagers?
credit default swaps, collateralized debt obligations and synthetic CDOs.
Peter J. Wallison believes that the huge number of these loans led to the financial crisis?
substandard
How many Miles East of Puerto Rico is St. Barts?
160
What are the people of St. Barts called?
Saint-Barthélemoise
What island besides St. Barts was granted COM status by France in 2007?
Saint Martin
When was the last senate election in St. Barts?
September 2014
What is often difficult on the island?
Agricultural production
St. Barts is considered a playground for whom?
the rich and famous
About how many hotels does St. Barts have?
25
What types of plants are usually found at St. Barts?
succulent
What plant was brought to St. Barts from the Mediterranean?
aloe or aloe vera
When is the end of the dolphin migration period in St. Barts?
May
What color are conch shells?
pearly-pink
How many hectares does the marine preserve cover?
1.200
Who built the three forts on St. Barts?
the Swedes
How many restaurants does the island have?
over 70
How often is the AG2R Race held?
every alternate year
Where is the airport located on the island?
the north coast
What country is Saint-Barthélemy a collectivity of?
France
What kind of island is St. Barts?
volcanic
St. Barts was formerly a part of what French commune?
Guadeloupe
What is the name of the deepest bay at St Barts?
Colombier Bay
How many public beaches are there in St. Barts?
22
What type of climate does St. Barts typically have?
arid
When did the British invade the harbour town in St. Barts?
1744
What is the English name of the historic museum in St. Barts?
St. Barts Municipal Museum
In what fields of science is the genome studied?
molecular biology and genetics
Who coined the word genome?
Hans Winkler
A gamate has how many chromosomes relative to a somatic cell?
half
What is the science that deals with the common genetic characteristics of related organisms called?
genomics
What is the relation between the number of base pairs and total complement of genes in a species called?
C-value paradox
Who was the first person to sequence a viral genome?
Walter Fiers
Which U.S. government agency keeps a large amount of information on genomes?
US National Institutes of Health
What is a recent development in sequencing methods?
massive parallel sequencing
What is the term for something that lists the important and notable parts of a genome?
genome map
What is the term that accounts for the constituents of the haploid genome?
Genome composition
What two types of organisms have remarkable differences in their genomic composition?
prokaryotes and eukaryotes
What is an example of an organism that has a portion of its genetic material outside of its chromosomes?
pathogenic microbe
What are examples of classes of eukaryotes where genome only refers to the information found in chromosomes?
plants, protozoa and animals
What is the name for the count of all DNA base pairs in a single haploid genome?
Genome size
What is a name for the reduced complement of genetic material necessary for an organism to live?
minimal genomes
What are two types of non-repetitive DNA?
Protein-coding genes and RNA-coding genes
What is an example of an organism which does not contain any repetitive DNA?
E. coli
What are two types of repetitive DNA found in genomes?
tandem repeats and interspersed repeats
Unequal crossing over can create what type of repetitive DNA?
Tandem repeats
What is the main source of interspersed repeats?
Transposable elements
What kind of genetic material can be produced from retrotransposons?
RNA
What is a term that can describe how DNA transposons move?
cut and paste
What is another word for the total count of chromosomes?
karyotype
What type of generation of genetic material has a big part in making the genome what it is?
Duplications
What is an explanation for the resemblance between disparate parts of the genome?
Horizontal gene transfer
What kind of school does not base its admissions on academic merit?
comprehensive school
What are some areas of learning in comprehensive schools that were not found often in grammar schools?
design and technology and vocational learning
How many selective grammar schools are still currently functioning in England and Wales?
164
What is a word that can be used to describe the scope of a comprehensive school's intake?
neighbourhood
In what decade did Finland begin employing comprehensive schools?
1970s
What type of school is the Gesamtschule?
comprehensive
What percentage of Brandenburg students went to a Gesamtschule in 2007?
50%
What was the combination of Hauptschulen with Realschulen and Gesamtschulen called in Hamburg?
Stadtteilschule
What kind of classes are not offered in Mittelschule?
college preparatory classes
What type of misconduct have comprehensive schools been alleged of engaging in?
grade inflation
Who could be made vulnerable by the Gasemtschulen?
bright working class students
Who conducted a study on comprehensive schools?
Helmut Fend
When was the first comprehensive school opened in Gibraltar?
1972
When did Ireland first open comprehensive schools?
1966
In what decade were community schools conceived?
1970s
What did the community school system remove from the comprehensive school model?
the denominational basis of the schools
In what year was the Walworth School established?
1946
Who was responsible for the proliferation of comprehensive schools in 1965?
Anthony Crosland
Who was made Secretary of State for Education in 1970?
Margaret Thatcher
By what year did the 11-plus exam mainly fall out of use?
1975
Who initiated the scrutiny of the educational system in 1976?
James Callaghan
What law enables parents full control over their child's education?
Education Reform Act
All public primary and secondary schools in Scotland are of what type?
comprehensive
Which country is Northern England's school system most different from?
Scotland
What is the French term for the Republic of the Congo?
République du Congo
What language was spoken in the area that became the Congo?
Bantu
What is the Congo's rank among other oil generating nations in the Gulf of Guinea?
fourth
What group of people were living in the area that would become the Congo prior to the arrival of Bantu tribes?
Pygmy
Whose expedition arrived at the mouth of the Congo River in 1484?
Diogo Cão
When did the French take control of the region to the north of the Congo River?
1880
What served as the capital of France in spirit during the Occupation?
Brazzaville
When was the Fifth Republic founded?
1958
On what date was the Congo made fully independent from colonial rule?
August 15, 1960
Who became president of the Congo in 1963?
Massamba-Débat
Who became president of the Congo in 1968?
Marien Ngouabi
Which group of nations did Nguesso side the Congo with?
Eastern Bloc
Who was elected president of the Congo in 1992?
Pascal Lissouba
Which two figures clashed over leadership of the Congo in 1997?
Lissouba and Sassou
Which politican left the presidential race after supporting a boycott by voters?
Milongo
Who won the presidential election in 2009?
Sassou
What kind of political system has existed in Congo-Brazzaville since the '90s?
multi-party
What has Sassou's regime attempted to censor?
corruption revelations
When did Sassou reveal that there would be a vote to alter the 2002 constitution?
March 27, 2015
Who controlled the media in the Congo in 2008
the government
Who is considered to own members of the Pygmies?
Bantus
Between which two lines of latitude is the Congo located?
4°N and 5°S
What is the capital of the Congo?
Brazzaville
What kind of terrain is found in the southwest part of the Congo?
coastal plain
On what major line of latitude is the Congo located?
Equator
Which group studied gorillas in 2006-07?
Wildlife Conservation Society
What is the focus of the Congo's industrial production?
Petroleum
What did income from petroleum allow the government to fund in the early '80s?
large-scale development projects
What caused reform efforts to cease in 1997?
civil war
What are two economic issues faced by the Congolese government?
stimulating recovery and reducing poverty
What precious metals and minerals have yet to be utilized in the Republic of the Congo?
base metal, gold, iron and phosphate
What forms of transport are available in the Congo?
land, air and water
In what part of the country can most of the Congo's citizens be found?
southwest
How many languages are used in the Congo?
62
Prior to the civil war in '97, how many non-Africans lived in the Republic of the Congo?
about 9,000
What is the most commonly practiced religion in the Congo?
Catholics
How much of the gross domestic product was spent on public health in 2004?
8.9%
As measured in 2010, how many deaths occurred for every 100,000 live births in the Congo?
560
Public schooling is required for people under what age?
16
What branch of government does the prime minister lead?
executive
What is a parliamentary model on which other systems have been based?
Westminster system
What is a central duty of the prime minister?
ensure the passage of bills
What are two other job titles of the Prime Minister of the  UK?
First Lord of the Treasury and Minister for the Civil Service
When was the title of prime minister first used?
1625
When did the modern usage of prime minister come into being?
18th century
Who occupied the role that would later become prime minister under Henry VIII?
Thomas Cromwell
From whom did ministers derive their power?
the monarch
Who are the two ministers used by Queen Anne simultaneously?
Harley and St John
What 1688 event helped the parliament solidy its power against the monarch?
Glorious Revolution
The reign of which king was a turning point in the growth of the position of prime minister?
George I
For how long did Robert Walpole serve as prime minister?
twenty-one years
Aside from Walpole, who else denied that there was no such thing as the prime minister?
parliamentarians and legal scholars
In the U.S. and governments modeled on it, who holds executive power?
president
Which non-elected official has held the longest term as prime minister?
Sheikh Khalifah bin Sulman Al Khalifah
Greece, Finland, Romania and Turkey use what kind of government?
parliamentary republics
What is the term for the head of China's government?
Premier of the State Council
What is the term for a situation in which the president and prime minister come from different political parties?
cohabitation
Which constitution details the role and abilities of the prime minister?
Bangladesh's
What is directly above the premier in the People's Republic of China?
the National People's Congress
Which law first referred to the prime minister in Canada?
the Constitution Act
What document details the role and abilities given to the prime minister of the Czech Republic?
constitution
When was prime minister first mentioned in a government document in the UK?
first decade of the twentieth century
Which prime minister was appointed only one time?
Margaret Thatcher
What is the name of the prime ministerial position in Ireland?
Taoiseach
Most parliamentary governments need to have the support of what governmental body?
lower house of parliament
Who can put a stop the parliamentary attempts at dissovling itself in some areas?
head of state
When was the convention of prime ministers initiating the dissolution of parliament started?
1918
What process signals the need for the prime minister to resign in Australia?
spill motion
What is the Russian term for prime minister?
Chairman of the government
What is the Italian term for the prime minister?
president of the council of ministers
What is a term that is used to mean prime minister?
premier
In what kinds of nations can the head of government attain the title of Excellency?
non-Commonwealth countries
What kind of government is in operation in the United Kingdom?
devolved
What is the head of government's office called in Canada?
Office of the Prime Minister
What's a common abbreviation for the term institute of technology?
IT
In what century did the term polytechnic first show up?
19th century
What word means the same thing as "institute of technology"?
polytechnic
What was the first institute of technology in the world?
the Berg-Schola
What kind of institutions do countries like Germany and Switzerland consider institutes of technology to be?
institutions of higher education
In what year were polytechnics in the UK given the university designation?
1992
What term was used in some countries to describe select universities that focus on technological education in applied science and engineering?
polytechnics
What name did some universities switch to in the 1990s for marketing purposes?
University of Technology
What's the four-letter abbreviation for technically minded technical and further education institutes?
TAFE
TAFE Tasmania started a three-year restructuring in what year?
2009
In Australia, how many universities are recognized as Universities of Technology?
seven
What's the German word for a tertiary education institution?
Fachhochschule
What term is used in Belgium and the Netherlands to refer to an institution like a German Fachhochschule?
hogeschool
What term refers to the process that a hogeschool undergoes before it's able to award Master's degrees?
academization
How many institutes of technology in the Netherlands have converted into full-fledged universities in the past few decades?
four
What country has Institutes of Technology/Polytechnic Institutes from which students can earn certificates, diplomas, and degrees?
Cambodia
What are polytechnic divisions of national universities called in Canada?
Affiliate Schools
In what city is the École Polytechnique de Montréal located?
Quebec
What is Canada's national alliance of 11 research-focused schools called?
Polytechnics Canada
In what year was the Imperial Tientsin University founded in China?
1895
What year did Croatia pass a law regarding polytechnic education?
1997
What institution is in charge of tracking volcanic activity in the Galápagos Islands?
The Geophysics Institute
What observatory is the National Observatory of Ecuador?
Quito Astronomical Observatory
EPN's Nuclear Science Department is among how many of its kind in Ecuador?
one
If the mission is achieved, professionals will apply what they've learned to what goal?
the country's development
MIT raised money to cover tuition, room and board for what number of students?
50
What's the equivalent of Universities of Technology in French-speaking areas?
Instituts de technologie
How many credits were needed for an M.Sc. (Tech.) degree before the Bologna Process?
180
In what country are polytechnic schools designated uniquely from academic universities?
Finland
Universities that encompass several engineering schools provide curricula in sciences and what other field?
technology
What are an institute of technology called in France?
institut universitaire de technologie
What's the term in German for what those in French-speaking Switzerland call haute école specialisée?
Fachhochschule
In Eastern Europe, what is the word for an institute of technology?
Polytechnicum
Fachhochschulen first came about in the early years of what decade?
1970s
What's the abbreviation for a Technische Universität?
TU
Which department's faculty can be associated with university hospitals?
medicine
How many institutes of technology are there in Germany?
17
What's the joint project of TU Clausthal, TU Braunschweig, and the University of Hanover called?
Niedersächsische Technische Hochschule
What's the name of the Act that changed how Greek public institutes of technology were designated?
Higher Education Reform Act
What was the very first polytechnic school in Hong Kong?
The Hong Kong Polytechnic
What kind of mining did the world's first institute of technology prepare students for?
copper
How many private institutes of technology are there in India?
16
What's the name of the diploma awarded in India for technical or vocational coursework?
Diploma in Engineering
How many government-owned public institutes of technology does Indonesia have?
four
Rather than four-year Bachelor's degrees, Politeknik offer a diploma after how many years?
three
What was the original name of Ireland's Institute of Technology system?
Regional Technical College
What Irish institute of technology evolved independently of the Regional Technical College System?
Dublin Institute of Technology
What term in higher education refers to technical universities that award engineering degrees?
Politecnico
What city houses the headquarters of the Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia?
Genoa
What college was the forerunner for the engineering faculty at the University of Tokyo?
Imperial College of Engineering
What country has operated polytechnic institutes for nearly 44 years?
Malaysia
How many polytechnic institutes does Malaysia have now?
32
What's the name of Mauritius's sole technical university?
University of Technology, Mauritius
What country considers their polytechnics, universities, and colleges state-owned institutions?
New Zealand
What school did Massey University combine with?
Wellington Polytechnic
What's the only polytechnic school in New Zealand to be designated a university?
Auckland University of Technology
In Pakistan, a student's tests in what grade determine their admission to a diploma program?
10th
What two-letter abbreviation is used for undergraduate engineering  courses?
BE
What's Pakistan's program called that's comparable to the British A Level?
F.Sc
What word do they use in Poland for an institute of technology?
Politechnika
What is the Portuguese word for the short-cycle degrees awarded prior to 1988?
bacharelatos
What's the name of Singapore's centralized institute that students can attend before university?
Millennia Institute
How many polytechnics are there in Singapore?
5
What queen set up the Banská Akadémia?
queen Maria Theresa
What are polytechnics called in South Africa?
Technikons
When did Technikons start being integrated with traditional South African universities?
2004
Most institutes of technology in Thailand were born out of what other type of institutions?
technical colleges
What did the Thonburi Technology Institute become after its name change?
King Mongkut's University of Technology Thonburi
What is the name of Thammasat University's engineering school?
Sirindhorn International Institute of Technology
What institute of technology opened in Bursa in 2010?
Bursa Technical University
What year did UK polytechnics start functioning in a binary education system?
1970
How many Institutes of Science and Technology were affiliated with the University of Wales?
two
What act allowed polytechnic schools to become universities?
the Further and Higher Education Act 1992
If a technical institute is affiliated with a local university, what does its designation become?
university colleges
In what year was Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute founded?
1824
What type of economy was technical education in Venezuela intended to support?
middle class
What city in Venezuela had the first IUT?
Caracas
Where does the information stored on the Wayback Machine come from?
World Wide Web
What operating system is used on Wayback Machine's servers?
Linux
What TV show served as inspiration for the Wayback Machine's name?
The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show
When was the program necessary to crawl and archive the web created?
1996
What medium was originally used to keep Internet Archive's data?
digital tape
What are the saved versions of a site called?
Snapshots
When did it become a requirement for websites to appear on Open Directory for inclusion in the Archive?
After August 2008
In 2009, what size did the data saved by Wayback Machine reach?
three petabytes
When did Internet Archive chance its platform for data storage?
2009
When was an upgrade of the Wayback Machine released for testing?
2011
When were details of the test version of the updated Wayback Machine released?
March 2011
What was the functionality called that gave users the ability to save a snapshot of a site?
Save a Page
What 2009 court battle involved the Wayback Machine?
Netbula, LLC v. Chordiant Software Inc.
Who did Netbula believe was the entity that should be responsible for the availability of its snapshots?
Internet Archive
Which judge presided over the Netbula v. Chordiant case?
Magistrate Judge Howard Lloyd
What does Telewizja Polska operate?
TVP Polonia
When are Internet Archive timestamps useful for patent offices?
in examining a patent application
What kind of limitations exist in keeping copies of a website?
technical
What kinds of laws could the Wayback Machine be viewed as breaking in Europe?
copyright laws
Web pages that contained content critical of what religous movement were taken off of the Internet Archive in 2002?
Scientology
Which law firm leveraged Wayback Machine to protect their client in 2003?
Harding Earley Follmer & Frailey
What kind of protocol is the Robots Exclusion Standard?
voluntary
Who asserts that they will respond to direct contacts requesting material be removed from the archive?
Internet Archive
Who sued Internet Archive in 2005?
Suzanne Shell
When did Suzanne Shell's suit against Internet Archive come to an end?
April 25, 2007
What was the first method used by the actor in trying to get his images taken down?
DMCA requests
What are some other names the Dutch Republic is known by?
the United Provinces (Verenigde Provinciën), Federated Dutch Provinces (Foederatae Belgii Provinciae), and Dutch Federation (Belgica Foederata)
The Low Countries were made up of which present day countries?
Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg
The majority of the Low Countries were ruled by which houses?
the House of Burgundy and subsequently the House of Habsburg
In what year was the Union of Utrecht signed?
1579
In what year did the United Provinces invite Francis, Duke of Anjou to lead them?
1582
What events created the Batavian Republic?
a series of republican revolutions in 1783–1795
In what year did the Netherlands gain independence from France?
1813
The Dutch Republic dominated world trade during what time?
the Dutch Golden Age
When was the stock exchange founded in the Netherlands?
1602
The Dutch had one of the strongest and fastest navies in the world during what time?
1590–1712
The Dutch Republic consisted of how many provinces?
seven
What was the 8th province of the Dutch Republic?
the County of Drenthe
Who appointed the stadtholders?
the states of each province
What group of people supported the stadtholders, particularly the princes of Orange?
Orangists
Several border territories were designated to the United Provinces after what?
the Peace of Westphalia
Who was in control of the Dutch East India Company (VOC) and the Dutch West India Company (WIC)?
The States General of the United Provinces
Who was influenced by the Constitution of the Republic of the United Provinces?
The framers of the US Constitution
What granted Holland and Zeeland the right to accept only one religion?
the Union of Utrecht of 20 January 1579
What did any person who wanted to hold public office need to conform to during the Republic?
the Reformed Church
What was the main subject of controversy that arose within the Reformed Church during the beginning of the Republic?
predestination
When did the active persecution of religious services become more of a restricted tolerance?
in the 18th century
What language does the word "symbiosis" come from?
Greek
How long did it take for scientists to stop using the narrow definition of symbiosis?
130 years
What is the type of symbiotic relationship where two organisms can't survive without each other?
obligate
What is an example of ectosymbiosis?
mistletoe
What do bacterial endosymbionts give necessary nutrition to?
insects
What organisms are described as living on the surface of whales?
barnacles
What is another term for mutualism?
interspecies reciprocal altruism
What type of relationship do herbivores have with the bacteria in their intestines?
mutualistic
What lives with Ritteri sea anemones?
ocellaris clownfish
What species does this shrimp have a relationship with?
the goby fish
What type of symbiosis seen between bryozoans and hermit crabs?
non-obligate
When were the worms found?
the late 1980s
What is given to the host cell?
nutrients
What is the main alteration in an endosymbiont when it adapts to a host?
drastic reduction in its genome size
What language do the roots of "commensal" come from?
Latin
What is the term for a relationship where one organism provides a dwelling for the other?
inquilinism
Antagonistic or antipathetic symbiosis are alternate names for what?
A parasitic relationship
What is the name for the kind of symbiosis in which one organism is seriously harmed and there is no affect on the other?
Amensalism
What organisms is the ibex in an amensalistic relationship with?
weevils
What type of relationship harms both organisms?
Synnecrosis
What far-reaching result do scientists think has come about from symbiosis with bacteria?
the evolution of all eukaryotes
What does Margulis think is the main driver of evolution?
symbiosis
How big a part did symbiosis have in the development of flowering plants and their pollinators?
a major role
What is the French name of the Canadian Armed Forces?
Forces armées canadiennes
How many sub components are there?
four
Who currently is the Commander-in-Chief of the Canadian Armed Forces?
Queen Elizabeth II
What war were the CAF involved in?
Cold War
What Treaty is the CAF part of?
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
What is Canada's defense policy based on?
Canada First Defence Strategy
What other priority do the Canadian Armed Forces also contribute too?
conduct of Canadian defence diplomacy
What year was Canada united in a confederation?
1867
Who initially had military command?
the British Crown-in-Council
When was the first overseas deployment of the Canadian Military?
Second Boer War
How many operations has the Canadian Military been part of since 1947?
more than 200 operations
What famous World War II battle was the Canadian Military part of?
the Normandy Landings
Canada had which biggest army during the Second World War?
the largest volunteer army ever
When did the Canadian Armed Forced become to be?
1 February 1968
What is the old name of the Canadian Forces?
Canadian Armed Forces
What forces were sent out in support of peacekeeping?
Land Forces
What is Today's annual cost of the Canadian Forces?
approximately $20.1 billion
What was the effort called to upgrade the Canadian Forces?
the Canada First Defence Strategy
What equipment was acquired to aid in Afghanistan?
main battle tanks, artillery, unmanned air vehicles
What roles were women recruited for in the 1950s?
medicine, communication, logistics, and administration
Name some of the jobs in the CAF off limits to women in the 1980s.
infantry, armoured corps, field artillery, air-defence artillery
What year were most military occupations opened to women?
1989
What is a requirement for equipment for the CAF?
equipment must be suitable for a mixed-gender force
What is the hierarchy of the Canadian Armed Forces?
It begins at the top with the most senior-ranking personnel and works its way into lower organizations.
What determines who is the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed forces?
The Canadian constitution
The armed forces has approximately how many members?
115,349
How many Canadian Forces bases are there in Canada?
27
How many warships does the Royal Canadian Navy have?
33
Who heads the Canadian Army?
Commander of the Canadian Army
How many brigades does the Army consist of?
three
Where is most of the major training performed?
CFB Gagetown, CFB Montreal and CFB Wainwright.
Who heads the Royal Canadian Air Force?
the Commander of the Royal Canadian Air Force
What are some locations of the air bases?
Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba
What does JTFN stand for?
Joint Task Force (North)
When was the Canadian Joint Operations Command established?
October 2012
what does CANSOFCOM stand for?
The Canadian Special Operations Forces Command
What is the the Information Management Group responsible for?
electronic warfare and the protection of the Armed Forces' communications and computer networks
Who does The Health Services Group serve?
the Canadian Armed Forces
When can the reserve force be called upon?
in times of national emergency or threat
Who commands the reserves?
Chief of Reserves and Cadets
Who conducts training of the cadets?
Cadet Organizations Administration and Training Service
What do Canadian Rangers perform?
provide surveillance and patrol services
What is suitable for CAF members to wear on any occasion?
service dress
What are some of the authorized head dresses for the CAF?
beret, wedge cap, ballcap
What gives the federal government responsibility for national defense?
The Constitution of Canada
In 1059, who was responsible for electing the pope? 
the principal clergy of Rome and the bishops of the seven suburbicarian sees.
At one time, Priest permanently were assigned to a church were referred to as?
cardinal
Who were the first people to be called cardinals in Rome? 
the deacons of the seven regions of the city
What term was given to certain church men of honor?
cardinal
In what year did Pope Pius IV wrote abou tthe selecting of cardinals? 
1563
Who were generally temporal rulers?
French kings
In what roles did cardinals have important roles?
secular affairs.
Pope Sixtus V limited the number of cardinals to?
70
Where do the cardinals work?
a church in the city of Rome or one of the suburbicarian sees
Who receives the hishopric of Ostia?
The Dean of the College of Cardinals
In was year was the title decreed Eminence?
1630
The Archdiocese of Milwaukee says that the correct way to address a cardinal in English is? 
"Cardinal [First name] [Surname]"
What way is used to announce the election of a new pope in Latin?
[First name] Cardinal [Surname]
Do any sees carry the right to the cardinalate?
no
Who are among the most senior members of the Catholic Church?
Cardinal bishops
In early times, who was generally electied to cardinal?
a Roman priest
How many suburbicarian sees?
seven
Cardinal bishops do not have any powers of governnace over the suburibicarian see since when?
1962
The entire group of cardinals is known as what?
College of Cardinals
Who is the only person who can judge a Cardinal in regards to laws of the church?
the pope
What does the pope give to a new Cardinal?
a gold ring
What is the name of the hat that the pope used to wear when naming a new Cardinal?
a galero.
Which Cardinals still wear traditional clothing?
Eastern Catholic cardinals
What does the color red symbolize in the clothing worn by Cardinals?
willingness to die for his faith
What happens if a Cardinal is named in pectore, and the pope dies?
the cardinalate expires
Which pope began using creati et reservati in pectore?
Pope Martin V
What was a "lay cardinal" allowed to do that is not considered a normal status of a Cardinal?
marry
A cardinal who does not hold the title of "bishop" may not do what?
perform the functions reserved solely to bishops, such as ordination
In what year did the practice of allowing non priests to become Cardinals stop?
1917
In the time between electing new popes, what is the duty of the cardinal?
collate information about the financial situation of all administrations dependent on the Holy See and present the results to the College of Cardinals
Who announces the election of a new pope?
The cardinal protodeacon
What color is the hat?
white
How many cardinal deacons were there in 2005?
30
In 1939, how many Cardinals were Italian?
about half
What is the name of one of the deaconries in which Cardinals come from?
seven deacons in the Papal Household
Which cardinals are ranked lowest?
cardinal deacons
Who can become the cardinal protopriest?
The cardinal who is the longest-serving member of the order of cardinal priests
In the College of Cardinals, the elected Dean needs the approval of who?
the Pope
Patriarch cardinals are not given what title?
a suburbicarian see
Who are the lowest ranking cardinals in the Catholic church?
cardinal deacons
What was the original definition of a cardinal priest?
priests chosen by the pope
Each cardinal priest has what?
a titular church in Rome
In what year did Pope Sixtus V put a cap on the number of cardinals in the College of Cardinals?
1587
What is another term meaning Iranian languages?
Iranic languages
How many different Iranian languages exist?
86
Iranian languages are all said to be derived from which predecessor?
Proto-Iranian
When was the phrase Iranian language family first used?
1836
From where did Iranian languages originate?
Proto-Iranian
What language family did Thracian and Balto-Slavic belong to?
Indo-European
Where did early Iranian people establish societies?
southeastern Europe, the Iranian plateau, and Central Asia
What characteristic of Middle Iranian civilization is shown by the number of different languages and their speakers?
linguistic diversity
In which historical record does Old Persian appear in exemplary form?
the Behistun inscription
What ancient religious document exists in two versions and includes Old Iranian language?
Avestan
What language is Carduchi thought to have become?
Kurdish
What are the two main divisions of Iranian tongues?
western and eastern
What elements of Proto-Indo-Iranian did not diverge according to the ensuing split between eastern and western variants?
*ć and *dź
What languages share a similar situation?
Nuristani languages
What may have also been in use at the time?
other distinct dialect groups
When did the age of Middle Iranian come to a close?
9th century
Bactrian, Sogdian, and Saka are examples of what type of Iranian language?
Eastern
What is another term for Middle Persian?
Pahlavi
The proliferation of which religion had a profound effect on the development of Iranian languages?
Islam
What was the new form of writing introduced by the spread of Islam?
Arabic script
What is another term for Western Iran?
Khuzestan
What is used a main source of light for a building during the day?
Daylighting
What type of fixtures do you use for indoor lighting?
light fixtures
When was fluorescent lighting first available?
1939
What type of lighting can be mounted in the ceiling to appear flush?
Recessed lighting
Peking man kindled fire as early as?
400,000 BCE
What type of lighting was powered by electricity?
incandescent light
Street lights help reduce?
urban crime.
What can come in a wide variety of styles for various functions?
Lighting fixtures
Luminous efficacy is measure in what unit?
lumen per watt
How many Kelvins is daylight measured at?
6400
A light is classified by intended purpose, what mainly changes its classification?
light produced by the fixture.
Who invented track lighting?
Lightolier
What is a uplight used for ambient lighting?
torchiere
What is one type of fixture commonly found in offices?
table lamp
When would neon lighting be considered general lighting?
dark nightclub
What do steps in move theater aisles have for safety markings?
small lights
What is used to light walkways at night?
Street Lights
What kind of light is used to illuminate outdoor playing fields at night?
Floodlights
Extremely bright lights used to deter crime are called?
security lighting
What type of light would be used illuminate the entrance to a property?
Entry lights
What color are tail lights?
red
What is the removable and replaceable part of a light fixture?
light bulbs
What is designing as it applies to built environments?
architectural lighting design
What type of paint tends to absorb light?
dark paint
What type of study is used to simulate lighting designs?
Photometric studies
What is prepared prior to the performance for the lighting operator?
lighting cues
Motion pictures employee the similar lighting techniques as which other form of lighting?
stage lighting
What is the basic SI unit of measurement?
candela (cd)
What is a standardized model of human visual brightness?
luminosity function
What does UGR stand for?
Unified Glare Rating
What does CCT stand for?
correlated color temperature
What does GAI stand for?
gamut area index
What is typically used to measure light?
light dosimeters
What measures the amount of light entering the eye?
Daysimeter
How many days can the Daysimeter gather for analysis?
30
What is a basic concept of deciding how much illumination is required for a given task? 
Specification of illumination requirements
What can help reduce energy and usage cost by providing light only when or where it is needed? 
Lighting control
What type of standard do newer control systems use? 
wireless mesh open standards
What sensor controls light with motion sensors? 
Occupancy sensors
What is the oldest method of interior lighting? 
Daylighting
What is a form of solid state lighting?
LEDs
What can cause health effects such headache frequency?
higher lighting levels
Maximizing the right amount of light at the appropriate time for elderly may help systems of what? 
Alzheimer's Disease
Who documented 23 surgical patients assigned rooms looking out on a natural scene?
Robert Ulrich
What University was Alision Jing Xu the assistant professor of management at?
University of Toronto Scarborough
What devised a method where kerosene could be distilled from petroleum?
Dr. Abraham Gesner
What does CFL stand for?
Compact fluorescent lamps
How much more power does a standard incandescent bulb use compared to LED?
10%
What is known as artificial light that is excessive or intrusive?
Light pollution
In a battlefield does not have natural light what could you use instead? 
searchlights and flares
What can be used by military for targeting?
Flares
What does the CIE stand for?
International Commission on Illumination
What does the IESNA stand for? 
The Illuminating Engineering Society of North America
What does IALD stand for?
The International Association of Lighting Designers
What does PLDA stand for?
The Professional Lighting Designers Association
Who offers the Lighting Certification Examination? 
NCQLP
What does PLASA stand for? 
The Professional Lighting And Sound Association
Which political practice did Montesquieu originate?
Separation of powers
Which Enlightenment thinker supported the idea of separation of powers?
John Locke
What country's government, on which the US government was modeled, did not formally implement separation of powers?
UK
What is the only branch of U.S. government imbued with lawmaking abilities?
Congress
What was one of the first times the Supreme Court tried a case regarding nondelegation?
Wayman v. Southard
When was the first time that a Congressional attempt at delegating lawmaking responsibility was found to be in violation of the Constitution?
the 1930s
Which branches of the national military does the U.S. president command?
Army and Navy
To what does congress attempt to limit executive officials?
the performance of their duties
In what branch is the ability to try legal cases placed?
Judicial
What kind of courts did congress establish?
legislative courts
Who can determine a date of adjournment if congress cannot agree?
President
Who has the power to issue a pardon?
The president
Who is the commander and chief of the Army?
The president
Who is responsible for judicial review?
Courts
Which courts decisions are binding across the entire United States?
the Supreme Court
Who can limit judicial review of a law?
Congress
Who presides over an impeachment trial?
The Chief Justice
Who wrote that the legislative branch was the predominate branch of government?
James Madison
Immediately following the civil war which branch of government was seen to have the greater amount of power?
Congress
How many bills did George Washington veto?
two
How many of Andrew Johnson's veto's were over turned by Congress
fifteen
Who was the first president to veto over 400 bills?
Grover Cleveland
Which President attempted to pack the supreme court?
Franklin Roosevelt
Under what basis did Richard Nixon assert an expansion of the power of the President?
national security
What term is used when one branch of government must get approval from at least one other branch of government?
checks and balances
Who has congress delegated the responsibility of establishing the rules of conduct for the courts to? 
the Supreme Court
Who may license and regulate attorneys in Florida?
the Florida Supreme Court
What is the latin word for architecture?
Architectural
What is the oldest architecture plans that has survived?
De architectura
When were the styles of arts created?
16th century
Who wrote the book Contrasts?
Augustus Welby Northmore Pugin
Who wrote Seven Lamps of Architecture?
John Ruskin
Does Ruskin believe all buildings are works of architecture?
not
What century was the architect Le Corbusier in?
20th-century
What term replaced Vitruvius' term "utility"?
Function
What are some philosophies that modern architects use?
rationalism, empiricism, structuralism, poststructuralism, and phenomenology.
When was the conecept, Sustainable architecture used?
late 20th century
What dynamic needs were the reason for building to be done?
shelter, security, worship
What type of buildings are are built mostly through out the world?
vernacular buildings
What civilizations used the divine and supernatural in their architecture?
Egypt and Mesopotamia
Name one Asian architectural writer.
Kao Gong Ji
What religion led to architectural changes in many Asian countries?
pantheistic religion
What cultures architecture inspired Islamic architecture to use pointed arch's?
European architecture
What type of buildings were took the most effort to build?
abbeys and cathedrals.
When was Renaissance Humanism developed?
1400
What sort of considerations does architectural design take into account? 
functional, technical, social, environmental and aesthetic
Who said that architecture was able extend beyond function?
Nunzia Rondanini
What is a reactionary thing to limit formalism's meaning to?
art for art's sake
From what ideals did Classical architecture emerge?
civic ideals
When were architectural writings first made?
ancient time
What organizations were created by Medieval craftsmen?
guilds
What aspects of buildings did science and engineering have an effect on?
proportions and structure
What two fields began to grow apart?
architecture and engineering
What started with the Industrial Revolution?
mass production and consumption
What kind of books did housebuilders use?
pattern books and architectural journals
At what century's start did revivalist fall into disfavor? 
20th
What kind of movement was modern architecture in the beginning?
avant-garde movement
Who was instrumental in creating Organic architecture?
Frank Lloyd Wright
What made it possible to design architecture through new means and methods?
the Industrial Revolution
What aspect of historical styles did a lot of architects find lacking in modernist styles?
decorative richness
What school was a response to Brutalism?
the school of metaphoric architecture
When was the start of the  architectural phenomenology movement?
the late 1950s and 1960s
About when did architecture begin specializing?
Since the 1980s
What issue has moved to the forefront in recent years?
Environmental sustainability
What are three new movements that have a focus on sustainability?
New Urbanism, Metaphoric architecture and New Classical Architecture
Which three statistics does the HDI compile?
life expectancy, education, and income per capita
In what year did the Human Development Report introduce the IHDI?
2010
In what year did Mahbub ul Haq devise and launch the HDI?
1990
What does LE stand for?
Life expectancy at birth
What entity makes the defining formula for the HDI well-known?
the United Nations Development Programme
On what date was the 2015 Human Development Report released?
December 14, 2015
On what date was the 2014 Human Development Report released?
July 24, 2014
What does the IHDI specifically take into account?
Inequality
Which Caribbean nation is in the top quartile of HDI (but missing IHDI)?
Cuba
What is the main reason that countries were excluded from the 2014 report?
lack of necessary data
On what date was the 2013 Human Development Report released?
March 14, 2013
Does the IHDI measure the "average" or the "potential" level of human development?
the average level
Which Caribbean nation is in the top quartile of HDI (but missing IHDI)?
Barbados
Which year was used for estimates in the 2011 report?
2011
Which Caribbean nation is in the top quartile of HDI (but missing IHDI)?
Barbados
What is the main reason that countries were excluded from the 2011 report?
unavailability of certain crucial data
On what date was the 2010 Human Development Report released?
November 4, 2010
In the IHDI, inequality is factored into what three human development dimensions?
income, life expectancy, and education
Which Caribbean nation is in the top quartile of HDI (but missing IHDI)?
Barbados
What is the main reason that countries were excluded from the 2010 report?
unavailability of certain crucial data
On what date was the 2009 Human Development Report released?
October 5, 2009
What three reasons were mentioned for countries being excluded?
being a non-UN member or unable or unwilling to provide the necessary data at the time of publication
What type of update was released on December 18, 2008?
statistical update
On what date was the 2007/2008 Human Development Report released?
November 27, 2007
Which countries experienced a decrease in HDI?
high income countries
Under what number does a country need to fall in order to be considered a "low development" country?
0.5
What number indicates the minimum score for a country to be considered a "high development" country?
0.8
If there is a decrease in a country's ranking, which indicator will be present?
red arrows
Which country has been ranked highest the most number of times?
Norway
The HDI has been criticized for focusing exclusively on what?
national performance and ranking
How many economists were cited as pointing out data errors in the HDI?
three
How many countries were included in the 2009 HDI?
182
What is another term for southern Europe
Mediterranean Europe
What are three characteristics that can be employed to characterize southern Europe?
political, economic, and cultural attributes
What kind of climate is exemplary of southern Europe?
The Mediterranean climate
Where do colder areas occur within southern Europe?
mountain ranges of Spain and Italy
What is a word that can be used to describe the plant life of southern Europe?
phytochoria
What era started when Ancient Greek cities became self-governing entities?
classical antiquity
Where was the headquarters of the Western Roman Empire?
Rome
What is the Eastern Roman Empire in the Middle Ages called by contemporary scholars?
the Byzantine Empire
What is the name of the period of armed incursions undertaken in the name of Christianity?
the Crusades
What era was characterized by turmoil in Europe?
The Late Middle Ages
When was the start of the period known as the Renaissance?
14th century
Which countries initiated the Age of Exploration following the Reconquista?
Portugal and Spain
What resulted from Europe's exploration of the New World?
the rise of colonial empires
When were there many struggles for independence or overthrowing prevailing governments?
between 1815 and 1871
In what year did World War I begin?
1914
Which group took control in 1933?
The Nazi regime
What does EU stand for?
European Union
What is the most common group of languages spoken in Mediterranean Europe?
Romance languages
What is another term for Greek?
Hellenic
What language is used in Macedonia?
Macedonian
What is considered a de facto second language in Mediterranean Europe?
English
What language can be found used in Kosovo and Albania?
Albanian
What is the main faith practiced in southern Europe?
Christianity
What term is used by the UNO to divide groups of nations?
regions
What does TDM stand for?
Tourism Decision Metrics
What is the acronym for British Broadcasting Corporation?
BBC
What percentage of viewership across the UK is constituted by the BBC?
30%
As a result of shows that the BBC itself creates, it is one of the biggest what?
television production companies
On what date was the first TV show seen in the UK?
30 September 1929
Where was the BBC's first studio located?
Broadcasting House, London
Where did the BBC continue broadcasting from in October of 1936?
Alexandra Palace
For how long did the BBC alternate different broadcasting systems?
six months
How far from its studio could the BBC's broadcast originally reach?
40 kilometres
Where was the BBC's transmitter located in 1930?
Brookmans Park
What did the British fear could provide guidance to the German air force?
VHF transmissions
How many TVs were made between 1936 and the start of the war in 1939?
18,999
Who was the first person to speak on BBC when it was turned back on following World War II?
Jasmine Bligh
What city received BBC signals starting in 1949?
Birmingham
What was the name of the BBC changed to in 1960?
BBC tv
What was the first station launched after the original BBC?
ITV
What was the first station to show programs in color?
BBC Two
When was the first broadcast of Tom and Jerry on BBC One?
1967
Which group did David Attenborough join while on sabbatical?
BBC Natural History Unit
How many different areas does BBC One accommodate with customized broadcasting?
fifteen
What is the name of a political show shown on BBC in Northern Ireland?
Give My Head Peace
How much of its programming must the BBC obtain from other content producers?
25%
What kind of service was Ceefax?
teletext
When did the BBC say it would start using a satellite to transit its signal?
May 2003
With the right tools, what area could get free BBC broadcasts from Astra 2D?
Western Europe
When was the 50th anniversary of BBC news broadcasts?
5 July 2004
Who was the leader of BBC Television in 2006?
Jana Bennett
When did the BBC start exploring the use of internet streaming?
2008
As of early 2016, what BBC show has been sold outside of the country the most times?
Keeping Up Appearances
How often are people required to remit the TV license fee?
annually
When did BBC Vision change back to BBC Television?
2013
When did BBC Japan begin broadcasting?
December 2004
What's Arnold Schwarzenegger's birth date?
July 30, 1947
How old was Schwarzenegger when he started bodybuilding?
15
What year marked the end of Schwarzenegger's second term in the governor's office?
2011
What country was Schwarzenegger born in?
Austria
What was Schwarzenegger's older brother's name?
Meinhard
What sport Schwarzenegger played led to a trip to the gym that sparked his love of weightlifting?
soccer
What year did Schwarzenegger's brother die?
1971
What magazine revealed the details of Schwarzenegger's childhood punishments in 2004?
Fortune
Which bodybuilding title did Schwarzenegger call his "ticket to America"?
Mr. Universe
Which of the bodybuilders Schwarzenegger idolized as a kid did he meet in 1966?
Reg Park
How old was Schwarzenegger when he started hoping he'd move to America?
10
What magazine called Schwarzenegger America's most famous immigrant?
LA Weekly
What's the title of Schwarzenegger's 1977 book?
Arnold: The Education of a Bodybuilder
What does TM stand for?
Transcendental Meditation
What bodybuilding competition is named after Schwarzenegger?
the Arnold Classic
How frequently did Schwarzenegger write a column for Muscle & Fitness and Flex?
monthly
What bodybuilding title did Schwarzenegger win in 1965?
Junior Mr. Europe
In 2011, how much time each day did Schwarzenegger say he lifted weights? 
half an hour
In what competition did Schwarzenegger have to lift over 500 pounds while balancing on foot rests?
Munich stone-lifting contest
What year did Schwarzenegger first try to win the Mr. Olympia title?
1969
Who did Schwarzenegger beat to win his sixth Mr. Olympia in a row?
Franco Columbu
What was the name of the bodybuilding film Schwarzenegger starred in?
Pumping Iron
For what Hollywood role was Schwarzenegger training in 1980?
Conan
In what year did Schwarzenegger write that he used anabolic steroid because they were "helpful"?
1977
What German doctor was sued by Schwarzenegger?
Dr. Willi Heepe
What was Schwarzenegger's first film role?
Hercules
When did Schwarzenegger purchase the rights to the film Pumping Iron?
1991
What was the title of the sequel to Conan the Barbarian?
Conan the Destroyer
What other action star was an international hit in the 1980s?
Sylvester Stallone
What's the title of the comedy movie Schwarzenegger starred in with Danny DeVito in 1988?
Twins
What Schwarzenegger film was 1991's highest-grossing movie?
Terminator 2: Judgment Day
What was Schwarzenegger's second film with co-star Danny DeVito?
Junior
How many feet tall was the proposed statue of Schwarzenegger?
82
Which 2005 movie featured Schwarzenegger as himself?
The Kid & I
What's the name of the comic book character modeled on Schwarzenegger?
the Governator
On what date in 2011 was the hold on Schwarzenegger's movie projects announced?
May 20
In what year did Schwarzenegger speak at the Republican National Convention?
2004
What was the title of the anti-drug music video Schwarzenegger appeared in under the Reagan administration's sponsorship?
"Stop the Madness"
What nickname did George H.W. Bush give to Schwarzenegger?
Conan the Republican
What year did Schwarzenegger's interview with Talk magazine take place?
1999
The episode of The Tonight Show with Jay Leno where Schwarzenegger announced his candidacy for Governor aired on what date?
August 6, 2003
What percentage of the October 2003 vote was in favor of a recall?
55.4%
What politician threatened to start working to recall Schwarzenegger right after he was elected?
Willie Brown
In what month of 2005 did Schwarzenegger hold a special election?
November
Who did Schwarzenegger choose as Chief of Staff?
Susan Kennedy
In the 2006 gubernatorial election, who did Schwarzenegger run against?
Phil Angelides
What political office did people speculate Schwarzenegger might try for in 2010?
United States Senate
What author claimed Schwarzenegger is power-obsessed?
Wendy Leigh
What year did Schwarzenegger become a naturalized citizen of the United States?
1983
Who did Schwarzenegger finally endorse in the 2008 Republican primary?
John McCain
What group awarded Schwarzenegger the title of one of the 11 "worst governors" in a 2010 report?
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington
What was Schwarzenegger's highest approval rating during his stint as governor?
89%
What was the controversy around Schwarzenegger's first gubernatorial campaign nicknamed?
Gropegate
One woman accused Schwarzenegger of trying to remove what item of clothing?
bathing suit
What magazine published an interview quoting Schwarzenegger calling marijuana a "leaf"?
GQ
Who sued Schwarzenegger and two of his employees for libel, settling in 2006?
Anna Richardson
What year did Austria outlaw the death penalty?
1968
What date marked the first law restricting greenhouse gas emissions?
September 27, 2006
What region of the U.S. has California partnered with on the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative?
the Northeast
In what city was the SAE World Congress held in 2009?
Detroit
What article, section, and clause of the Constitution requires U.S. presidents to be natural-born citizens?
Article II, Section I, Clause V
Where would Schwarzenegger write down his goals?
index cards
With which of his friends did Schwarzenegger start a bricklaying company?
Franco Columbu
How much did Schwarzenegger pay for the first apartment building he bought?
$10,000
What restaurant chain did Schwarzenegger invest in?
Planet Hollywood
What investment firm does Schwarzenegger maintain partial ownership of?
Dimensional Fund Advisors
What's the name of the restaurant Schwarzenegger opened with his wife?
Schatzi On Main
In what year did Schwarzenegger and Maria Shriver separate?
2011
In what year did Schwarzenegger's former girlfriend Barbara Outland Baker publish her memoir?
2006
What was the name of the hairdresser's assistant Schwarzenegger fell for in July of 1977?
Sue Moray
What is Maria Shriver's relation to President John F. Kennedy
niece
How long were Schwarzenegger and Shriver married?
25 years
Baena worked for the Schwarzenegger/Shriver family for how many years?
20
Which attorney did Schwarzenegger consult to handle his divorce?
Bob Kaufman
What actress claimed she also carried on an affair with Schwarzenegger while he was with Shriver?
Brigitte Nielsen
What word describes an aortic valve with two rather than three leaflets?
bicuspid
Which of Schwarzenegger's sons was with him when he had a motorcycle accident in 2006?
Patrick
What bone did Schwarzenegger break while on a ski trip in 2006?
right femur
At what airport was Schwarzenegger's jet forced to make an emergency landing in 2009?
Van Nuys Airport
How tall does Schwarzenegger claim to be?
6'2"
What's the title of Schwarzenegger's autobiography?
Total Recall
In what year did AM General grant Schwarzenegger's wish for a street-legal Humvee?
1992
What color is the exterior of Schwarzenegger's Bugatti Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse?
silver
How many pounds does one of Schwarzenegger's Hummers weigh?
6,300
What nonprofit did Schwarzenegger found in 1995?
the Inner City Games Foundation
What school within the University of Southern California does the Schwarzenegger Institute for State and Global Policy belong to?
the USC Sol Price School of Public Policy
In kilometers, what is the distance from Plymouth to Exeter?
60
What was the location of the earliest settlement near Plymouth?
Mount Batten
What nearby settlement built ships for the Royal Navy?
Devonport
As of 2014, what was the population of Plymouth?
261,546
What is the name of the location cited by Ptolemy that is believed to have been located near modern Plymouth?
TAMARI OSTIA
In what century were sailors obligated to relocate from Plympton due to silting?
11th
In what year during the Hundred Years' War did the French assault Plymouth?
1340
What notable slave trader was based out of Plymouth?
Sir John Hawkins
Which faction did Plymouth support during the English Civil War?
Parliamentarians
During what century was Plymouth involved with the Atlantic slave trade?
18th
In what year was HMNB Davenport established?
1690
Along with coal and grain, what was the most important import in 18th century Plymouth?
timber
Who founded Plymouth Porcelain?
William Cookworthy
In kilometers, how long was the Plymouth Sound Breakwater?
2
What animal byproduct was imported to Plymouth in the 19th century?
guano
What was the primary base of the Royal navy during World War I?
Scapa Flow
What force used Sunderland flying boats out of Devonport?
Royal Australian Air Force
Who was the author of the 1943 Plan for Plymouth?
Sir Patrick Abercrombie
What aircraft carrier received maintenance at Devonport Dockyard?
Ark Royal
In what text was the presence of a settlement in the Plymouth area first recorded?
Domesday Book
Who was the first woman MP to take her seat in the British Parliament?
Nancy Astor
What constituency did MP Michael Foot represent?
Plymouth Devonport
What was the population of Plymouth in 1971?
250,000
What European Parliamentary constitutency is Plymouth a part of?
South West England
How many wards in Plymouth elect two councillors?
three
What monarch bestowed the first Lord Mayor on Plymouth?
King George V
At what street address is the Lord Mayor's residence located?
3 Elliot Terrace
What river is to the west of Plymouth?
River Tamar
What estuary east of Plymouth is part of the River Plym?
Cattewater
What special designation does Plymouth Sound, Shores and Cliffs possess?
Site of Special Scientific Interest
Middle Devonian limestone exists between Plymstock and what location?
Cremyll
On what date was the publication of the Plan for Plymouth?
27 April 1944
What Köppen climate classification does Plymouth possess?
temperate oceanic
Along with convection, what provokes rain in the Plymouth area?
Atlantic depressions
How many hours of sunshine does the South West England region get each year?
over 1,600
In degrees Fahrenheit, what was the highest temperature achieved in Plymouth between 1971 and 2000?
89
How many students are studying at the University of Plymouth?
25,895
What institution of higher  education is colloquially known as Marjons?
The University of St Mark & St John
Along with City College Plymouth, what college calls Plymouth home?
Plymouth College of Art
How many state primary schools are in Plymouth?
71
What maritime institution of higher education existed in Plymouth as of 1880?
the Royal Naval Engineering College
What organization known as the MBA is based in Plymouth?
Marine Biological Association
What was the population of Plymouth unitary authority circa 2011?
256,384
What percentage of Devon's GVA does Plymouth comprise in 2013?
25%
What percentage of Plymouth residents were suffering from poverty and deprivation in 2014?
26.2%
How many Plymouth residents are employed in defense?
12,000
About what percentage of Plymouth's income comes from the Dockyard?
10%
What notable shop is located in a grade II listed building?
Pannier Market
What is the name of Plymouth Council's urban redevelopment project?
"Vision for Plymouth"
When was the Charles Cross car park removed?
2004
What location is proposed for the future home of the Plymouth City Council headquarters?
the Bretonside bus station
What is the A38 called inside the city of Plymouth?
The Parkway
Who operates the ferry to Spain?
Brittany Ferries
What local airport closed in 2011?
Plymouth City Airport
When did Plymouth's railroad station open for service?
1877
On what date was the Dawlish sea wall damaged?
4 February 2014
How many churches are present in Plymouth?
150
What Plymouth Jew was mentioned by Sir Francis Drake?
Moses
What percentage of Plymouth's population call themselves Christian?
58.1%
In what year was Union Street constructed?
1815
What notable event occurs each August?
British Firework Championships
How many people can fit in the Theatre Royal?
1,315
What television station has its regional headquarters in Plymouth?
BBC South West
What football league team is located in Plymouth?
Plymouth Argyle F.C.
What rugby union team is based in Plymouth?
Plymouth Albion R.F.C.
When was the first Port of Plymouth Regatta?
1823
When did Plymouth begin receiving water from South West Water?
1973
What body handles waste management in Plymouth?
Plymouth City Council
When did the Plymouth Borough Police begin operation?
1836
What is Plymouth's National Health Service hospital?
Derriford Hospital
When did Ford Park Cemetery reopen?
2007
In what year was the Royal Citadel constructed?
1666
What was the name of the port once situated on the land occupied by present day Plymouth?
Sutton
What structure was referred to as a "Palmerston's Folly"?
Crownhill Fort
In what cardinal direction outside Plymouth is Devonport located?
west
Visitors to what region's beaches often stop at Plymouth?
south-east Cornwall
Who designed the Roland Levinsky building?
Henning Larsen
What are Plymouth residents commonly called?
Plymothians
What was the birthplace of Sir Francis Drake?
Tavistock
What artist died in Plymouth in 2002?
Robert Lenkiewicz
What is the occupation of Trevor Francis?
footballer
What is heresy mainly at odds with?
established beliefs or customs
What religions and idea of thought is heresy cited as being used frequently in?
Christianity, Judaism, Islam and Marxism
What cultures are listed as examples of discipline for being a heretic?
Christian, Islamic and Jewish
What language does the term heresy find its roots in?
Greek
How many times is it suggested that you should warn people you are in disagreement with before parting ways?
two times
What culture and religion did Fathers of the Church correlate with heresy?
Jews and Judaism
Who gave more exposure to the term heresy when attempting to descredit opponents during the early centuries of Christianity?
Irenaeus
Who was the first Roman Emporor that was baptized?
Constantine the Great
In what year was the first usage of the term heresy in a legal context?
AD 380
Who was the first Christian individual to be sentenced to death by the church for heresy in Rome?
Priscillian
What is thought of to spiritually cut one off from the Church even before excommunication?
obstinate and willful manifest heresy
In what country did the Cathars grow to represent a popular movement?
France
Who was brought before the Inquisition for heresy but renounced his beliefs and thus remained under house arrest for life?
Galileo Galilei
Who denounced Jewish People in many of his writings?
Pope St. Gregory
What area of Christianity commonly cited the first seven Ecumenical Councils in regards to heresy?
Eastern Christianity
What is the work called that Martin Luther created regarding Jews and heresy?
"On the Jews and Their Lies"
What event in England during the 16th century had an outcome of many deaths for heresy?
European Reformation
During which years did the execution of the Boston martyrs take place?
1659, 1660, and 1661
What year did the deaths of heretics under Christianity come to an end?
1826
Under which religion do charges of heresy still occur in modern times?
Christian
What event is stated as a reason why the word heretic is used less often in modern times?
Spanish inquisition
What group did Sultan Selim the Grim label as heretics?
Shia Qizilbash
What type of law is still in practice in which heresy results in execution?
Sharia law
What does Orthodox Judaism regard Jews who depart from traditional practices as?
heretical
What term is used for the act of using Church of Scientology techniques in contrast to what Hubbard envisioned?
squirreling
What must be welcomed in areas for the term do be perceived as complimentary?
innovation
What is the title of the book published by Robert T. Bakker regarding mainstream opinion of dinosaurs?
The Dinosaur Heresies
What label is associated with Immanuel Velikovsky due to his works outside the accepted discipline?
exoheretic
By definition, what contrast does heresy depend on?
an established orthodoxy
In which year was the Warsaw Pact established?
1955
Which organization was in direct competition with the Warsaw Pact?
NATO
In which country did the Warsaw Pact dissolution meeting take place?
Hungary
Despite being headquartered in Poland, the top-ranking operatives of the Warsaw Pact were from which country?
the USSR
Which ideologies did the Soviet Union aspire to lead around the globe?
socialism and communism
The formation of the Warsaw Pact was driven by fears of which country rearming itself?
West Germany
Who was the Soviet minister who proposed German reunification?
Molotov
The omission of which nation from involvement in the proposed security system led to its NATO opposition?
the USA
Who was the general who spoke out against the USSR joining NATO?
Hastings Ismay
In what year did Konrad Adenauer first visit the United States?
1954
Which NATO country feared a unified and rearmed Germany?
France
In which year was West Germany admitted to NATO?
1954
In which month of 1955 was this pact declared?
May
Which nation was permitted rearmament by the foundation of the Warsaw Pact?
East Germany
How many countries formed the initial Warsaw Pact membership?
eight
In which year did Mongolia seek entry in the Warsaw Pact?
1963
What was the focus of both alliances' policies towards the other in lieu of direct fighting?
containment
In which year did Hungary attempt to leave the Warsaw Pact?
1956
In which year was the Warsaw Pact activated in a joint action?
1968
In which country did Warsaw Pact officials meet to dissolve the alliance?
Hungary
Which former Eastern Bloc country was the latest to join NATO?
Albania
In which year did Poland declassify most of its Warsaw Pact-era archives?
2005
What is materialism?
a form of philosophical monism
What are some examples of philosophical physicalism?
spacetime, physical energies and forces, dark matter
What class does materialism belong to?
monist ontology
What is the first question to ask in order to define the two classes?
"what does reality consist of?"
Was René Descartes an idealist or a materialist?
materialist
What type of materialism defined the Marxist philosophy?
dialectical materialism
Who coined the Axial Age?
Karl Jaspers
Around what time did materialism become part of Ancient Indian philosophy?
600 BC
Materialism is linked to what?
reductionism
De Rerum Natura is a poem by who?
Lucretius
Name the title of the work by Jayaraashi Bhatta.
Tattvopaplavasimha ("The upsetting of all principles")
What is the name of the novel written by Ibn Tufail?
Hayy ibn Yaqdhan (Philosophus Autodidactus)
Pierre Gassendi lived from what year to what year?
1592-1665
Arthur Schopenhauer lived from what year to what year?
1788-1860
Who wrote "The Essence of Christianity"?
Ludwig Feuerbach
In regards to the mind, what are 3 theories that modern day philosophers try to harmonize?
functionalism, anomalous monism, identity theory
What is hyle?
matter
Relativity illustrates that what is interchangeable?
matter and energy
Which model suggests that matter is 5% of the universe?
Lambda-CDM model
Werner Heisenberg suggested that atoms are not what?
things
What are some of the findings that support their argument?
quantum mechanics and chaos theory.
Digital physicists consider what to be more important than matter?
information
Based on the above definition, materialism is not consistent with what?
religions
Neoplatonism describes divinity as what?
simple, immaterial, formless, substance/essence (ousia) that transcended all that was physical
If you believe in idealism, you are disbeliving in what?
materialism
What 3 types of philosophies attempt to correct the problem with matter and energy without removing every belief about materialism?
Emergence, holism, and process philosophy
Instead of faith, John Polkinghorne relies on what when it comes to the theory of materialism?
dual-aspect monism
Whose technology enabled the Space Race between the Soviet Union and the united States?
German rocket technology
Where were the actual origin of the Space Race?
Germany
What was von Braun's role in the army's rocket program during during World War II?
technical director of the ballistic missile program
After World War II what did the American, English and Soviet allies want to capture?
Germany's rocket engineers
Who led the Soviet rocket engineers
Sergei Korolev
What year was the R1 rocket born?
1948
What professor began working on solid-fuel rockets since 1914?
Robert H. Goddard
The  United States Army's White Sands Proving Ground is located where?
New Mexico
What year did the US lose its monopoly to the atomic bomb?
1949
How many casualties did the Soviet Union have during WWII?
27 million
Who began developing the  R-7 Semyorka rocket?
Korolev
The US Air Force began research of ICBMs in what year?
1945
Who was president Dwight D. Eisenhower's press secretary?
James C. Hagerty
A Jupiter-C was launched by Von Braum on what date?
September 20, 1956
The civilian rocket and satellite project in the US was called what?
Vanguard
The first US satellite to launch without failure was on what date?
January 31, 1958
Who was the Senate's Majority Leader in 1958?
Lyndon B. Johnson
The Redstone Arsenal became the George C. Marshall Space Flight Center when?
July 1, 1960
How many attempts to the Moon did Luna E-1-class probes fail before successfully launching?
4
The Ranger program from 1959 was managed by what organization?
NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory
Which country succesfully launched the first person into space in 1961?
the USSR
April 12, in the USSR, is what special day?
Cosmonautics Day
Man in Space Soonest was a program by which organization?
US Air Force
The first American to travel into space was whom?
Alan Shepard
President Kennedy sent a letter on April 20, 1961 to who about the US's space program?
Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson
The speech by Kennedy, "Special Message on Urgent National Needs" was delivered on what date?
May 25
"We choose to go to the Moon" speech was given at what location in Texas?
Rice University Stadium
The first American to orbit around the planet was whom?
John Glenn
How many more Mercury missions were there after John Glenn's?
3
What first person from the USSR controlled their own spacecraft?
Gherman Titov
The first woman that went into space was whom?
Valentina Tereshkova
At what event was the Vostok spaceship first displayed to the public ?
July 1961 Tushino air show
When did US President John F. Kennedy, in a speech, propose to join forces to reach the moon with the USSR?
September 20, 1963
President Kennedy was killed when?
November 22, 1963
What two locations in Florida were renamed after Kennedy by President Johnson?
Cape Canaveral and Apollo launch facilities
What year was the Gemini project confirmed?
1962
On what date was the first successful three man astronaut crew?
October 12, 1964
Korolev died on what date?
January 14, 1966
The Voskhod 2 carrying two humans was launched on what date?
March 18, 1965
Project Gemini helped recruit experienced people for which upcoming lunar missions?
Apollo
Who created the circumlunar program called Zond?
Vladimir Chelomey
The "Lunniy Korabl" or "LK" would carry how many people?
N1
The Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space was established in what year?
1959
A problem was resolved by whom when both the US and the USSR supported a cooperative space program?
Political Committee of the UN General Assembly
The Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space was signed by three countries on what date?
January 27, 1967
Both crews were killed on which spacecraft missions in 1967?
Apollo and Soyuz
The Outer Space Treaty was signed by the US and the USSR on what date?
January 27, 1967
Who was the person credited with the first in-flight space death?
Vladimir Komarov
Apollo 7 launched from Earth on what date?
October 11, 1968
The Soyuz 3 began its mission to space on what date?
October 26, 1968
Where was the Zond 4 over when it was destroyed by an explosion?
Gulf of Guinea
The first successful water landing in the Indian Ocean by the Soviets was was when?
1968
Which three people were the first to ride the Saturn V rocket into space?
Frank Borman, James Lovell, and William Anders
How close to the ground was the Lunar Module in May 1969 during its landing test?
47,400 feet
The Soviet, N1 Rocket exploded and was destroyed on what date?
July 3, 1969
Apollo 11 mission was to land where on the Moon?
Sea of Tranquility
How long did the trip to the Moon last for the crew of the Apollo 11?
three days
How many people saw the first step onto the Moon?
723 million
When did the Apollo 11 mission land back on Earth?
July 24, 1969
When was the second landing on the Moon successful?
November 1969
Which year did the USSR cancel the N1 rocket program after two failures that didn't launch?
1976
The USSR launched their first space station on what date?
April 19, 1971
The station, Salyut 1, came back to Earth on which date?
October 11
The Skylab 1 was launched on which date?
May 14, 1973
Which two world leaders had negotiations that relieved the Cold War?
Richard M. Nixon and Soviet Premier Leonid Brezhnev
ASTP stands for what?
Apollo-Soyuz Test Project
Soyuz 19 took off from Earth on what date?
July 15, 1975
What year did the USSR disband?
1991
Which Russian rocket carries passengers to and from the International Space Station?
R-7 rocket
The United States' National Defense Education Act was established in what year?
1958
What is a pub licensed to sell?
it is licensed to sell alcohol
How far back does the history of pubs go back?
to Roman taverns
Why were the windows of town pubs made of smoked or frosted glass traditionally?
to obscure the clientele from the street
What is the owner, tenant or manager of a pub known as?
pub landlord
What was the off-sales counter or attached shop for the sales of beers, wines and spirits for home consumption often referred to as? 
jug and bottle
When did the inhabitants of the British Isles begin drinking ale?
the Bronze Age
In the early Middle Ages, where could a traveler obtain overnight accommodations?
in monasteries
Where is an inn typically located?
in the country or along a highway
What amenity does an inn offer that pubs, alehouses and taverns usually do not?
accommodation
What is the main service of an inn, now also attainable in motels, hotels and lodges?
lodging
Along with the Inns of Chancery, in what inns did British lawyers historically conduct business?
Inns of Court
What was the one ingredient of traditional English ale?
fermented malt
After what political upheaval was gin introduced to England?
the Glorious Revolution
What artist created the engraving Beer Street and Gin Lane?
William Hogarth
In what century did gin houses proliferate throughout Britain?
19th
What law allowed the existence of beer houses?
Beer Act of 1830
What is the approximate modern value of two guineas in 1830?
£168
How many beer houses opened their doors in the inaugural year of the Beer Act?
400
What establishments did beer houses become after buying an additional license?
pubs
Along with The Royal Oak and The Crown, what is a traditional name for a pub?
The Red Lion
In addition to a license to sell spirits, what did tavern owners require a license to sell?
ale
In what century were the operating hours of drinking establishments first limited?
19th
What law mandated a license from the local magistrate to sell beer?
Wine and Beerhouse Act 1869
Where can historical licensing records be examined?
London Metropolitan Archives centre
What law further restricted public houses?
the Defence of the Realm Act
What was the mandated closing time of pubs in Kensington in the 1960s?
10:30 pm
Circa 2000, what was the latest pubs in Wales could be open until on every day but Sunday?
11 pm
When were wartime licensing laws ended in Scotland?
1976
When did the Licensing Act 2003 come into effect?
24 November 2005
What is it called when the owner of a pub allows patrons to remain when the pub should have closed?
"lock-in"
In what month and year was smoking banned in public places in Scotland?
March 2006
What street in Islington was named for a pub run by Mr Ball?
Balls Pond Road
Along with cabaret, striptease, bands and drama, what is a type of stage performance that can be found in pubs?
stand-up comedy
What socioeconomic class was associated with the lounge bar in the 20th century?
middle-class
In what decades did class distinctions break down in Britain?
the 1960s and 1970s
What is another name for the smoke room?
snug
How many pubs were part of the CAMRA survey?
50,000
In Germany, what do servers do to serve beer in beer gardens?
bring the beer out to the table
Who pioneered the circular bar?
Isambard Kingdom Brunel
What is a "beer engine"?
a device for pumping beer
Who invented the beer pump in England?
John Lofting
In what newspaper did John Lofting mention his beer pump?
London Gazette
How many barrels did Lofting promise his beer pump would deliver hourly?
20 to 30
What is a common name for a beer pump powered by hand?
handpump
What was the name for a pub that could sell beer from more than one brewery?
a Free house
What is a notable brewery in Kent that owns hundreds of pubs?
Shepherd Neame
Along with Punch Taverns and Weatherspoons, what was an organization formed as a result of the Beer Orders?
O'Neill's
When a pub is bought by a new owner, what often happens to them?
renamed
What is the closest outlet for a brewery's beers called?
A brewery tap
What is another name for a rural public house?
country pub
What is a frequent modern function of country pubs?
providing seating facilities for the consumption of food
What is a blanket term for pubs that, for example, cater to sports fans?
theme pubs
Which monarch required landlords to post a sign if they wanted to sell ale?
Richard II
In what historical period was a large portion of the population illiterate?
the Middle Ages
Inscriptions from what language were sometimes present on pub signs?
Latin
What was an example of a battle that might lend itself to a pub name?
Trafalgar
What hangs today over most British pub doors?
decorated signs
What is an example of a memorable name for a pub chain?
Slug and Lettuce
What type of pub signs were useful to an illiterate clientele?
pictorial signs
After whom was the Marquis of Granby pub named?
John Manners, Marquess of Granby
The pub "The Bag o'Nails" was a corruption of what word?
Bacchanals
What game played in both Britain and America has become increasingly popular in pubs?
pool
Along with slot machines, what is a modern game that is increasingly present in pubs?
video games
What is the term for pub-based football that is often played on Sundays?
Sunday League Football
Dr. Feelgood and the Kursaal Flyers are examples of bands from what genre of music?
Pub rock
Pork scratchings, pickled eggs and salted crisps are examples of what type of food?
bar snacks
During what decade did some British pubs provide "a pie and a pint"?
1950s
What are foods like fish and chips and chicken wings called when they're served at a pub?
Pub grub
During what decade did food become an important aspect of a pub's business?
the 1990s
What two words is 'gastropub' a portanteau of?
pub and gastronomy
How many pubs does the National Trust own?
thirty-six
What pub in England is the highest above sea level?
the Tan Hill Inn
What pub holds the Guinness World Record as the oldest in England?
Ye Olde Fighting Cocks
Where is The Old Ferryboat Inn located?
Holywell
When does The Bingley Arms claim to have been founded?
905
What town is the Q Inn located in?
Stalybridge
When was a smoking ban passed in the United Kingdom?
2007
How many closed pubs did The Lost Pubs Project catalog?
28,095
Who was based out of the Swan Inn?
Dick Turpin
What pub was associated with Samuel Johnson, perhaps erroneously?
Ye Olde Cheshire Cheese
What is the street address of The Fitzroy Tavern?
16 Charlotte Street
Where is the Red Lion located?
Parliament Square
At what pub did Ronnie Kray kill someone in 1966?
The Blind Beggar
At what pub did Thomas Paine write The Rights of Man?
The Angel
Along with the Eagle and Child, at what pub did the Inklings regularly meet?
the Lamb and Flag
What pub is feature on the British soap opera Coronation Street?
The Rovers Return
What would be a more accurate classification for many "British" pubs found outside Britain?
themed bars
What continental European country has pubs that would be familiar to a Briton?
Denmark
What is the native Irish term for a pub's atmosphere?
craic
Traditionally, what was the popular term for a drinking establishment in English-speaking Canada?
tavern
What is a person who follows Christianity called?
Christian
While many, the perceptions of Christianity can sometimes what?
conflict
According to one report, how many Christians were in the world in 2010?
2.2 billion
Of all the Christians in the world, how many are Catholic?
half
What Greek word defines as "follower of Christ?"
Χριστιανός (Christianos)
Where is the first reference to the word Christian in the Bible?
Acts 11:26
Kenneth Samuel Wuest believes that the Biblical Christian term referenced people who did not acknowledge who?
the emperor of Rome
What is one of the first mentions of the term Christian in a non-religious work, referring to a tribe of Christians?
Josephus
In Acts 24, what is another word that Christians are called?
Nazarenes
While Christianity is ultimately one belief, a wide range of what is found among the different denominations and sects?
beliefs and practices
Who states that Christian believers agree that Jesus has a unique significance? 
Linda Woodhead
Judaism does not believe that Jesus is the what?
Messiah
What does Masīḥī mean?
followers of the Messiah
Which term is in reference to people from a Christian culture?
Nasrani
What is the Arabic term when referring to Christians in a political sense?
Ṣalībī
What is the most common Persian word for Christian?
Masīhī
Which word has been connected to Saint Thomas Christians of Kerala, India?
Nasrani
What term did the Malays use for the Portuguese Serani?
Nasrani
What is the Chinese word for Christian?
基督徒 (pinyin: jīdū tú)
What Japanese term was used in reference to Roman Catholics?
kirishitan
What is the Korean word for Christian?
기독교도, Kidok-kyo-do
What was the region of Eastern Europe called in 1 AD?
Scythia
How long have Christians made up nearly 1/3rd of the population?
100 years
More people belong to what religion than any other in the Western world?
Christianity
Which religion will have the most followers by the year 2050 if trends continue?
Christianity
What denomination of Christianity had the highest percentage of Nobel Prize winners between 1901 and 1972 in America?
Protestant
What was the first name of Sony Music Entertainment, Inc?
American Record Corporation
In what year did SME merge with another company?
2004
In what year did ARC form?
1929
Who bought out ARC?
Columbia Broadcasting System
In what year was Epic Records created?
1953
In what year was Mercury Records (US) bought out?
1961
What 4 areas of the country did Columbia Records have manufacturers in?
Los Angeles; Terre Haute, Indiana; Bridgeport, Connecticut; and Pitman, New Jersey
What lable was bought by CBS in the UK?
Oriole Records.
CBS began thinking of a name change to their record label in what year?
1965
Date Records gave rise to the group "Peaches and Herb" in what year?
1965
Who ran CBS-Columbia Group starting in 1966?
Leiberson
In what year did CBS and Sony come together?
1968
In what year was Clive Davis let go at CBS Records Group?
1972
How many people signed a petition to boycott Sony Music in 2016?
over a hundred thousand
What search engine company giant has Sony sent requests to regarding content on a website?
Google
In what year did Sony pull out of the Greek market?
2013
In what year did Sony shut down their offices in the Philippines?
2012
What famous music producer became CEO of Epic Records?
L.A. Reid
Name 3 artists that CBS Associated Records signed on in the 80s and 90s?
Ozzy Osbourne, the Fabulous Thunderbirds, Electric Light Orchestra, Joan Jett, and Henry Lee Summer
In what year did CBS sell CBS Songs?
1986
In what year was CBS the only network to also have a record company?
1987
In what year did SCA buy CBS Records?
1987
In what year did CBS Records buy out Tree International Publishing?
1989
In what year did CEO of RCA/Jive Barry Weiss leave?
2011
Who was promoted to Executive VP of Label Strategy in 2011?
Mel Lewinter
In what year did Sony and BMG Germany merge?
2004
In what year did Sony take BMG's half stake in the company?
2008
What labels strove to support indie labels and music rightsholders?
SME and IODA
Who did Sony partner with to create the biggest deal ever?
Michael Jackson Company
Columbia Pictures has been owned by Sony since what year?
1989
In what year did the merger take place?
1995
In what year did the name Sony Music Entertainment become the new name of Sony's record label?
1991
What is the capital of Oklahoma?
Oklahoma City
Which region is Oklahoma City a part of?
Great Plains region
What corridor is Oklahoma City situated in?
I-35 Corridor
What was the name of the land before being called Oklahoma City?
Unassigned Lands
What year was Oklahoma city entered into the Union?
1907
When was oil discovered in the city limits?
1928
Who was the Oklahoma Cities  first female mayor?
Patience Latting
What was the name of the redevelopment passage that was passed in 1993?
Metropolitan Area Projects
When was the Skirvin Hotel Renovated?
2007
What is the name of the newly renovated site where the bombing occured?
Oklahoma City National Memorial and Museum
What was the name of the project to change the location of I-40 and make a new entrance to the city?
The "Core-to-Shore" project
How many square miles is Oklahoma City?
620.34 square miles
Which region is Oklahoma city located in?
Sandstone Hills region
What river flows through Oklahoma city?
North Canadian River
What covers the remaining 377 square miles?
rural watershed areas
Which side is known for primarily being industrial?
South Oklahoma City
What are two newly renovated locations in downtown Oklahoma city?
Crystal Bridge and Myriad Botanical Gardens
What type of climate does Oklahoma city?
humid subtropical climate
How much precipitation on average falls within the city?
35.9 inches
When is Oklahoma city sever weather season begin?
March
When was the most rainfall for Oklahoma city?
May 2015
How many people were counted in the 2010 census?
579,999
How many households were in Oklahoma city?
230,233
What was Oklahoma cities median age in 2000?
34
When did the population increases begin in Oklahoma city?
late 1990s
What is Oklahoma's largest urbanized area?
Oklahoma City
What cartel has been known to be in Oklahoma city?
Juárez Cartel
When were six employees found dead in a restaurants freezer?
1978
How many substations does Oklahoma city have?
5
Who detonated the bomb in 1995?
Timothy McVeigh
How many universities are within the MSA region?
2
What was Oklahoma cities gross metropolitan product in 2009?
$61.1 billion
What year did forbes list Oklahoma city as "recession proof".
2008
When was the Wanda L Bass School of Music and auditorium opened?
April 2006
What was the original name of the Science Museum of Oklahoma?
Kirkpatrick Science and Air Space Museum at Omniplex
How many animal skeletons are in the museum of Osteology?
300
When did The American Indian Cultural Center and Museum begin construction?
2009
What is the name of Oklahoma Cities memorial?
The Oklahoma City National Memorial
What musical instrument has it's own museum in Oklahoma City?
the banjo
When was the Oklahoma History Center created?
2005
What NBA team hails from Oklahoma City?
Thunder
What team is the affiliate to the Los Angeles Dodgers?
Oklahoma City Dodgers
What is the name of the downtown arena?
Chesapeake Energy Arena
What is one annual event Oklahoma City hosts?
Big 12 Baseball Tournament
What park hosts Quarter horse racing?
Remington Park
What organization organizes High School football?
Oklahoma Secondary School Activities Association
Who moved the Oklahoma City Thunder to Oklahoma City?
Clayton Bennett
What place were the Thunder in 2010 NBA playoffs?
8th
When did the Thunder start winning Northwest Division Titles?
2009
Where did the Hornets play after Hurricane Katrina?
Ford Center
Who designed the bridge?
I. M. Pei
Which place hosts racetracks and is a casino?
Remington Park
Which lake is the cities largest lake?
Lake Stanley Draper
What place hosts concerts and lectures?
American Banjo Museum
Which BMX Champion had a park named after them in Oklahoma City?
Mat Hoffman
Who is the mayor of Oklahoma City?
Mick Cornett
What was the original name of Oklahoma City University?
Epworth University
Which district is OU Medicine campus located in?
Oklahoma Health Center district
Which university is the third-largest in the state?
University of Central Oklahoma
Which community college is the second largest in the state?
Oklahoma City Community College
What institution is accredited by the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools?
Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center
What is Oklahoma's largest school district?
Oklahoma City Public Schools
Where is The Oklahoma School of Science and Mathematics located?
Oklahoma City
What are the two largest technology education schools in Oklahoma City?
Metro Technology Center and Francis Tuttle Technology Center
What center is a nonprofit training center for disabled people?
The Dale Rogers Training Center
Which newspaper is the most produced through the state of Oklahoma?
The Oklahoman
Which side is the Black Chronicles Headquarters?
Eastside
What is the name of the lifestyle magazine?
Slice Magazine
What was the third Radio Station in the US?
WKY Radio
What rank is Oklahoma Cities television networks for Nielsen?
41st
How many  people are paid to be employed by the Oklahoma City Fire department?
1015
How many major highways cross through Oklahoma City?
3
What is one Major expressway that travels through Oklahoma City?
Lake Hefner Parkway
What boulevard turns into E.K Gaylord Boulevard?
Shields Boulevard
Which airport is the busiest?
Will Rogers World Airport
What is Oklahoma Cities transit company?
METRO Transit
When was MAPS 3 passed?
December 2009
What is the states oldest and largest Hospital?
St. Anthony Hospital and Physicians Medical Center
Where is the Children's hospital located?
Oklahoma Health Center district
Name a hospital owned by INTEGRIS Health?
INTEGRIS Baptist Medical Center
Where is the Midwest Regional Medical Center?
Midwest City
What ranking was Oklahoma City in for the American College of Sports Medicine in 2010?
last place
What kind of human lives by collecting wild flora and fauna?
hunter-gatherer
What has been humans' best adaptation in food production?
Hunting and gathering
How many groups of modern hunter-gatherers are there?
Only a few
How did early humans locate meat without hunting ?
scavenging
What is long-distance running as a food hunting-gathering technique?
persistence hunting
When did human populations begin using hunting-gathering?
1.8 million years ago
During what period did hunter-gatherers begin to focus food collection on a more limited range?
Middle to Upper Paleolithic
In what kind of area did forest gardening start?
jungle-clad river banks
Where do many modern day hunter-gatherers live?
in the developing world
Who expanded into the territory of hunter-gathers?
agricultural societies
What type of areas do modern hunter-gathers live in?
unsuitable for agricultural use
What is the lifestyle of hunter-gatherers?
nomadic or semi-nomadic
What kind of area allowed a more permanent settlement?
rich environments
What is the social style of hunter-gather societies?
egalitarian
How is it interesting to view hunter-gatherers' egalitarianism?
in an evolutionary context
What permanent group representative do hunter-gatherers not have?
permanent leaders
What value system do Western scholars tend to use in analyzing societies?
Western values
How is labor often divided in these groups?
sexual division
At what conference did Richard Borshay speak?
Man the Hunter
Who called hunter-gathers the original affluent society?
Marshall Sahlins
What other characteristic of group behavior is needed in a hunter-gatherer society?
sharing
What is the only important factor in hunter-gatherer tool choices?
temperature
What  does the immediate return system mean?
egalitarian
How do modern hunters and gathers differ from early ones?
contact with modern civilization
What is hunting and gathering argued to be?
adaptive strategy
If they're not purely hunter-gatherers, then what do they have a history of being?
agriculturalists
What can be learned from the study of modern hunter-gatherers?
nothing meaningful
Who has rejected Wilmsen's arguments?
Lee and Guenther
What do hunter-gathers intentionally manipulate?
the landscape
What do some agriculturalists often do?
hunt and gather
What is the name of the Spinifex people?
Pila Nguru
These ancient hunter-gathers followed what path in pursuit of game?
ice-free corridors
Where did the North American hunter-gathers mostly live?
Great Plains
What kind of climate occurred in the Americas?
warmer more arid
What is the current name of the United Nations Fund for Population Activities?
United Nations Population Fund
In how many geographic regions does UNFPA operate?
four
When did UNFPA begin its work?
1969
When did the U.N. vote to adopt the Sustainable Development Goals?
2015
Are the Sustainable Development Goals considered ambitious or modest in scope?
ambitious
Who was Executive Director or Under-Secretary General from 1969 to 1987?
Rafael M. Salas
UNFPA is the largest worldwide funder of what type of programs?
population and reproductive health programs
UNFPA lists elements that promote what human right?
reproductive health
Where does The Fund work to raise awareness and provide support?
developing countries
UNFPA's mission is to promote the rights and health of whom?
women and young people
UNFPA has  been accused of supporting what type of abortion?
forced-abortions
Who contributes to UNFPA?
governments and the private sector
During what period did UNFPA aid Peru's reproductive health program?
the mid-to-late '90s
Which 21st century administration denied funding to UNFPA?
the Bush Administration
Which country was administering forced abortions?
China
What policies did a State Department official accuse UNFPA of helping China carry out?
population control policies
Which representative criticized the the State Department investigation?
Christopher H. Smith
What organization found no evidence that UNFPA had supported Chinese coercion?
Amnesty International
Which government official blocked funding to the UNFPA?
President
Which European government contributed the most to the UNFPA in 2008?
the Netherlands
What is one country in which nonprofit organizations try to make up for the loss of United States funding for the UNFPA?
America
Which president began funding UNFPA again?
Barack Obama
Which ocean is along eastern Russia?
the Pacific Ocean
Which group originally created the Soviet state?
the Bolsheviks
When was the Soviet Union created?
December 30, 1922
When did the Soviet Union break up?
December 25, 1991
Which country did the RSFSR border on the west?
Poland
When did the Soviet regime first become powerful?
November 7, 1917
Which official name was Russia given at the start of 1918?
the Soviet Russian Republic
Which oblast was broken up in 1943?
Karachay Autonomous Oblast
On what date was the RSFSR established?
November 7, 1917
How much of the USSR's electricity was produced in the RSFSR?
two-thirds
On what date was the Declaration of State Sovereignty adopted?
June 12, 1990
What was the new name given to the RSFSR on December 25, 1991?
Russian Federation
On what date was the state named the Soviet Russian Republic?
January 25, 1918
What treaty resulted in the recognition of the RSFSR by Latvia and other states?
Treaty of Tartu
What was the common name of the Soviet Union?
Russia
What percentage of the RSFSR was made up of plains?
70%
On what date was the Treaty on the Creation of the USSR passed?
December 30, 1922
During what span was there a famine in the Soviet Union?
1932–1933
What was Soviet Russia called as of 1937?
the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic
What state was dissolved on March 3, 1944?
the Chechen-Ingush ASSR
What was the Tuvan People's Republic renamed when it joined the RSFSR?
Tuvan Autonomous Oblast
Along with Estonia, what country was taken over by the Russian SFSR in 1944?
Latvia
Along with Sakhalin Island, what islands were occupied by the Soviets after the Second World War?
Kuril Islands
On what date was Kaliningrad Oblast annexed?
April 17, 1946
Who was demoted on February 8, 1955?
Malenkov
When was the Chechen-Ingush Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic transferred from the Georgian SSR?
January 9, 1957
Who lost power in 1964?
Nikita Khrushchev
On what date was the Declaration of State Sovereignty of the Russian SFSR adopted?
June 12, 1990
On what date was the office of President of the RSFSR created?
March 17, 1991
On what date was the Communist Party of the Russian SFSR suspended?
August 23
In what country is Viskuli located?
Belarus
When did the Russian Federation assume the Soviet Union's membership in the UN?
December 24
What was the government of the RSFSR called up to 1946?
the Council of People's Commissars
What political organization controlled the RSFSR up to 1991?
the Communist Party of the Soviet Union
Which company is directly above Universal Studios?
NBCUniversal
What rank does Universal Studios have in terms of age?
fourth
After a trip to what city did Carl Laemmle leave the dry goods business?
Chicago
What company did Laemmle found in June 1909?
Yankee Film Company
On what date was the incorporation of the Universal Film Manufacturing Company?
April 30, 1912
On what date did Universal City Studios open?
March 15, 1915
What sort of films were produced by Red Feather?
low-budget programmers
Who directed Blind Husbands?
Erich von Stroheim
What was the name of Universal's German production unit?
Deutsche Universal-Film AG
what was the policy that Universal followed in its early years?
"clean picture"
Along with Walt Disney, who created Oswald the Lucky Rabbit?
Ub Iwerks
Who bought the Oswald the Lucky Rabbit cartoons in 2006?
Disney
How many of Carl Laemmle, Sr.'s relatives were working for Universal as of 1928?
70
What was Carl Laemmle Jr.'s nickname?
Junior
In what year did Universal make a film version of Dracula?
1931
What part of Universal's business was terminated while it was in bankruptcy?
The theater chain
In what year was Universal's ill-fated film version of Show Boat released?
1936
Who became president of Universal after the Standard Capital takeover?
J. Cheever Cowdin
Who produced the film Three Smart Girls?
Joe Pasternak
How old was Gloria Jean in 1939?
13
During what period were the Little Tough Guys films produced?
1938–43
What two performers were known as the team Abbott and Costello?
Bud Abbott and Lou Costello
Who was the directorial partner of Walter Wanger?
Fritz Lang
What was the first Universal film to use the three-strip Technicolor process?
Arabian Nights
In what year was United World Pictures founded?
1945
In what year was the Olivier version of Hamlet made?
1948
In what year was The Killers produced?
1946
Who did many of Universal-International's Arabian Nights films feature?
Tony Curtis
Who was a notable talent agent circa 1950?
Lew Wasserman
What acronym was the Music Corporation of America known by?
MCA
In what year did MCA take over Universal?
1962
Who produced Anne of the Thousand Days?
Hal B. Wallis
Who partnered with Universal in the creation of Cinema International Corporation?
Paramount Pictures
Who was the head of MCA in 1990?
Lew Wasserman
What percentage of MCA/Universal did Matsushita Electric sell five years after acquiring the company?
80%
Who was the head of Seagram?
Edgar Bronfman Jr.
Who bought 80% of Vivendi Universal Entertainment in 2004?
General Electric
In what year did Paramount Pictures purchase DreamWorks?
2005
Universal's deal with what company ended in 2013?
Elliott Management
What film studio was brought back in May 2015?
Gramercy Pictures
In what year did Universal release three billion-dollar films?
2015
What was the name of the Universal production company based in Paris?
Universal Productions France S.A.
What is Bell most famous for inventing?
telephone
What were his relatives known for working on?
elocution and speech
How many people started the National Geographic Society?
33
What city was Bell born in?
Edinburgh
What sort of things did Bell collect as a child?
botanical specimens
Bell was gifted at art, poetry, and what?
music
Where did Bell's uncle live?
Dublin
Who taught Bell when he was very young?
father
In what year did Bell's father take him to see an automaton?
1863
What living thing did Bell use in his research?
Skye Terrier
Who did Bell get to read his work?
Alexander Ellis
By what means did Bell conclude vowel sounds could be made?
electrical
In what year did the Bell's move to London?
1865
What city is Susanna E. Hull located in?
South Kensington
How old was Bell when he went to Canada?
23
What building did Bell use as a workshop?
carriage house
What did Bell rework to send music?
melodeon
Who ran the Boston School for Deaf Mutes?
Sarah Fuller
How many wires did Bell send a signal through?
1
What city did Bell decide to return to?
Boston
Bell's goal was to instruct the deaf to speak and not use what?
sign language
With what school did Bell get his next teaching job?
Boston University School of Oratory.
Bell's two remaining students were "Georgie" Sanders and who?
Mabel Hubbard
On what material did the phonautograph operate?
smoked glass
What business was William Orton in charge of?
Western Union
Who did Bell go to see in 1875?
Joseph Henry
Who did Bell take on to work with him?
Thomas Watson
What did Bell promise to split with his financers?
U.S. profits
What material did Elisha Gray use to convey sound?
water
What number is Bell's patent?
174,465
What kind of transmitter did Bell put in his telephone?
liquid
Bell implemented Gray's design as a what?
proof of concept
What part of the telephone was investigated by the patent officer?
variable resistance
Who declared himself an alcoholic?
Zenas Fisk Wilber
From what city did Bell send his first message?
Mount Pleasant
How much did Bell et al. try to sell his patent for?
$100,000
In what city was the 1876 Centennial Exposition?
Philadelphia
In what year was the Bell Telephone Company founded?
1877
In what month and year did Bell telephone across the country?
January 1915
During how many years did the Bell Company battle lawsuits?
18
In 1887 the US Government wanted to undo Bell's patent due to fraud and what?
misrepresentation
Who claimed to have invented the in 1834?
Antonio Meucci
Because of their patent, what didn't Siemens & Halske have to give Bell?
royalties
Who did Bell marry in 1877?
Mabel Hubbard
In what year did Mabel's father move to Washington D.C.?
1880
In what year did Bell officially become an American?
1882
What Island in Nova Scotia did the Bells go to in 1885?
Breton Island
Where did the Bells live when the Halifax Explosion happened?
Beinn Bhreagh
What series of books does Gray say Bell would go to sleep reading?
Encyclopædia Britannica
What famous lab did Bell spend time working for?
Volta
What form of water played a part in Bell's home cooling system?
ice
What did Bell call his cord-free phone?
photophone
Bell and his assistant first used their photophone on what date?
June 21, 1880
What did Bell call the best thing he ever made?
The photophone
What did Bell create in 1881?
metal detector
Bell gave his story about trying to find the bullet to the American Association for the Advancement of what?
Science
Who wrote the paper laying out hydrofoils and hydroplanes?
William E. Meacham
In what country did Baldwin and Forlanini get together?
France
What color silk covered Bell's kites?
maroon
What organization did Bell set up due to his interest in aerospace?
Aerial Experiment Association
What did the AEA work on after kites?
gliders
What did the AEA name their last plane?
Silver Dart
What kind of parents did Bell state were more prone to having deaf children?
congenitally deaf parents
What are Bell's personal papers known as?
Alexander Graham Bell Family Papers
Adjusted for inflation, how many dollars were awarded to Bell alongside the Volta Prize?
$250,000
What magazine did Bell found alongside Hubbard?
Science
What did Bell receive from many centers of post-secondary education?
honorary degrees
In 1936, what place did Bell receive on a list of best inventors?
First
What bird is depicted on the Scottish banknote?
geese
In 2002, where did Bell place in a list of the Greatest Britons?
57th
What disease contributed greatly to Bell's death?
diabetes
What kind of wood was Bell's coffin made from?
Beinn Bhreagh pine
Where was Bell buried?
atop Beinn Bhreagh mountain
What unit is named after Bell?
The bel
What does ISP stand for?
Internet service provider
What type of organization provides internet access?
ISPs
Why was the internet developed?
a network between government research laboratories and participating departments of universities
Where were the first isps established?
Australia and the United States
What would the absence of net neutrality permit? 
ISPs to offer content providers a faster track to send content
When did the FCC rule on net neturality?
February 2015
When did the FCC publish its final rule on net neutrality regulations?
13 April 2015
What do ISPs provide?
Internet access
what traditional options were available for users and small businesses? 
copper wires to provide dial-up, DSL, typically asymmetric digital subscriber line (ADSL), cable modem or Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) (typically basic rate interface)
What type of customers would typically have more demanding requirements? 
medium-to-large businesses, or other ISPs
What is a mailbox provider? 
an organization that provides services for hosting electronic mail domains with access to storage for mail boxes
What is SMTP?
Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
What do internet hosting services provide? 
email, web-hosting, or online storage services
Who does an ISP pay for internet access?
upstream ISPs
What is the simplest case of an ISP using an upstream ISP? 
transmit data to or from areas of the Internet beyond the home network
What is a VISP?
virtual ISP
What are free ISPs?
Internet service providers that provide service free of charge
What is a WISP? 
wireless Internet service provider
What is peering? 
multiple ISPs interconnect at peering points or Internet exchange points
Is a tradeoff between efficiency and cost possible? 
A tradeoff between cost and efficiency is possible
What are ISPs subject to monitoring by in some countries? 
intelligence agencies
Which form of comics entails the use of photographic images?
fumetti
When did Rodolphe Töpffer create cartoons?
1830s
French comics are also known as what?
bandes dessinées
Who is best known for being the first comics creator in Europe?
Rodolphe Töpffer
In France, what did historians find that they consider a precedent for comics?
Lascaux cave paintings
What was the first illustrated humor periodical in Britain during the 19th century?
The Glasgow Looking Glass
Which outlet did comic supplements find success in?
New York World
What comic strip did Bud Fisher have success with?
Mutt and Jeff
Which genre of comic books had parents concerned?
crime and horror
Serialization of comics became less popular when?
1980s
What picture books from the 17th century show manga origins?
toba-e and kibyōshi picture books
When did comic supplements start showing up in Japan?
1890s
What comic strip was created by Osamu Tezuka?
Sazae-san
Where do comics usually appear?
newspapers
Where do serialized comics in Japan typically appear?
magazines
What are bounds volumes of comics called in America?
graphic novels
Where did gag cartoons first make an appearance?
Europe
What did comics have in the United States because of cultural roots?
lowbrow reputation
What is a comic that is as long as a book called?
graphic novel
Who started producing comic strips and theories about them in 1827?
Rodolphe Töpffer
In the United States in the middle of the 20th century comics were seen as a risk to culture and what?
literacy
What does bandes dessinées mean?
drawn strips
Pilote cartoonists were upset with censorship and what?
editorial interference
Which historical overview did Seiki Hosokibara create?
Nihon Manga-Shi
Who put together a history of American comics in 1947?
Coulton Waugh
What word is used in France for comics?
bandes dessinées
What comics are on the Internet?
Webcomics
Storyboards and what are thought to be comics by some?
Wordless novels
What has not been reached as far as defining comics is concerned?
consensus
In the 1840s, Töpffer wrote theories about whose work?
his own
What Russian word is used for comics?
komiks
The word comic comes from the humorous pieces found where?
newspaper comic strips
Though one person typically creates the comic, there are usually a number of what involved in actually designing it?
specialists
What are the individual images with action called in comics?
Panels
What association with comics is strong?
Speech balloons
What type of ink is often used in making comics?
India ink
What is Saint Helena tropical island named after?
Saint Helena of Constantinople
When was the island discovered?
1502
The roots of what were established on Saint Helena?
environmentalism
What date was the island discovered on?
21 May 1502
What did the island have an abundance of when discovered?
trees and fresh water.
Who probably located the island on their final leg of their circumnavigation trip?
Englishman Sir Francis Drake
Who claimed Saint Helena in 1633?
The Dutch Republic
Who was granted a charter to govern Saint Helena?
the English East India Company
What did the English East India Company have difficulty attracting?
new immigrants
When did the Island start to experience a period of prosperity?
1770
Who set up an astronomical observatory on Saint Helena?
Edmond Halley
Saint Helena was an important port of which company?
East India Company
What was made illegal in 1792?
importation of slaves
The British government detained who in Saint Helena?
Napoleon Bonaparte
Who took full control of the island after Napoleon's death?
East India Company
Which product of Saint Helena was praised by Napoleon?
coffee
When was importation of slaves banned in Saint Helena?
1792
What act gave control of Saint Helena to the British Crown?
1833 India Act
Who established a naval station to cut down on African slave trade on the island in 1840?
British
Which french emperor gained possession of Longwood house and the land surrounding it?
Napoleon III
Who arrived in Jamestown during their solo round the world voyage?
Joshua Slocum
What country does the local industry that manufactures fibre get their flax from?
New Zealand
What did the Island sell for increased revenue during this period?
flax
What year did the Union Castle shipping line slowly start to reduce their service calls to the island?
1958
What right was lost by the citizen of the islands due to the act?
right of abode in Britain
What year was the replacement for the RMS St Helena launched?
1989
What year did the Saint Helena Constitution officially take effect?
1989
How much money was spent on construction of the island's airport?
250 million
What is the nearest port to Saint Helena?
Namibe
How many square miles is Saint Helena?
47
How close are the rockets and islets off the coast?
one kilometre
What is the national bird of Saint Helena?
the Saint Helena plover
What current affects the environment of Saint Helena?
Benguela Current
How many districts is the island of Saint Helena divided into?
eight
When was Saint Helena first settled?
1659
In 1840 what did Saint Helena become?
a provisioning station
When did Imported Chinese labor arrive?
1810
What kind of citizenship do the citizens of Saint Helena hold?
British Overseas Territories citizenship
What was there a long pattern of from the island starting during the post Napoleonic period?
emigration
What communion do most residents of the island belong to?
Anglican
When did Roman Catholics start to appear on the island?
1852
Who has executive authority in Saint Helena?
Queen Elizabeth II
How many seats are in the Legislative Council of Saint Helena?
15
What caused high unemployment on the island?
loss of full passports
What did the government of Saint Helena fund in 2012?
St. Helena Human Rights Action Plan 2012-2015
What has been more prominently reported in recent years in Saint Helena?
reports of child abuse
Saint Helena has a high proportion of what kind of birds?
endemic
How many lichen forming fungi have been recorded on the island?
more than 200
What kind of crop economy did the Island originally have?
monocrop
What is the tourist industry mostly based around?
the promotion of Napoleon's imprisonment
What does Saint Helena have the most expensive of?
coffee
What was the GDP of the island in 1999-2000?
£12 million
How much was public expenditure on the island in 2001-2002?
£10 million
How many individuals were unemployed on the island in 2013?
31
What % of households were spending less than £20 per week in 2004
8%
How many copper tokens were Issued in 1821?
70,560
What is the Saint Helena currency?
the Saint Helena pound
How many commercial airports are under construction in Saint Helena?
1
What ship runs between Saint Helena and Cape town on 5 day voyages?
RMS Saint Helena
When was the construction of an airport in Saint Helena announced?
March 2005
When did the British government agree to help pay for the new airport in Saint Helena?
22 July 2010
What kind of aircraft was the first to land at the new airport?
South African Beechcraft King Air 200
Who conducted the first helicopter landing at the airfield?
Wildcat HMA.2 ZZ377
What kind of vehicle offers basic transportation to people in Saint Helena?
A minibus
What day did Radio Saint Helena start operations?
Christmas Day 1967
What date was Saint FM radio launched?
January 2005
Which company took over the channels vacated by Saint FM?
Saint FM Community Radio
Who runs Saint Helena online?
a former print and BBC journalist
What does Sure South Atlantic LTD offer?
television
SURE provides what kind of service to the territory?
telecommunications
How big is the satellite dish at the satellite ground station in feet?
25
What is the international calling code for Saint Helena?
+290
What speed is Saint Helena internet access?
10/3.6 Mbit/s
What kind of broadband service is provided on the island?
ADSL
How long is the South Atlantic Express in miles?
6,214
How many local newspapers does the island have?
two
How many primary schools does the island have?
3
When does the mobile library service operate?
weekly
What curriculum does the island adapt?
The UK national curriculum
Saint Helena is a member of what kind of association?
International Island Games Association
Where does the Governor's cup take place? 
between Cape Town and Saint Helena island,
What kind of groups are on Saint Helena and Ascension Island?
scouting and guiding
Aspiration and preaspiration are used in what?
phonetics
With what word should you see a candle flicker or feel a puff of air?
pin
What does IPA stand for?
International Phonetic Alphabet
What is not often aspirated?
Voiced consonants
There are no IPA symbols for what?
degrees of aspiration
A preaspirated consonant is marked how?
placing the aspiration modifier letter before the consonant symbol
How are unaspirated or tenuis consonants sometimes marked for unaspiration?
with the modifier letter
What is created when the vocal folds are spread and do not vibrate?
Voiceless consonants
Aspiration of stops is seen as voiceless velar airflow in some languages, such as what?
Navajo
In Eastern Armenian, aspirated consonants occur in what?
consonant clusters
As well as lasting as long as an English aspirated stop, the Armenian and Cantonese aspiration lasts as long as what?
unaspirated stops
Aspiration alters with what?
place of articulation
What happens when an aspirated consonant is doubled or geminated?
the stop is held longer and then has an aspirated release.
What two languages mentioned have have preaspirated [ʰp ʰt ʰk]?
Icelandic and Faroese
The Sami tongue also has what?
Preaspirated stops
How many contrastive aspirated fricatives does Choni Tibetan have?
up to four
Indian languages commonly have murmured consonants instead of what?
True aspirated voiced consonants
What has a different significance in various languages?
Aspiration
Aspiration is what, in English and some other languages?
allophonic
When following a word such as spill, they are what for most speakers?
unaspirated
In languages like Thai and Icelandic, tenuis and aspirated consonants are what?
phonemic
How are lenis consonants distinguished from fortis consonants?
their lack of aspiration
Mandarin has stops and affricates that are distinguished by what?
aspiration
What has a three-way distinction in regards to stops and affricates?
Wu Chinese
How many distinctions in stops do languages like Bengali and Hindi have?
four
Telegu, Kannada and others are considered to be some of the what languages?
Dravidian
What language has two-way distinctions between aspirated and voiced?
Western Armenian
Early Greek (before Koine) have been redone with what?
aspirated stops.
What is the representation for the three places of articulation?
/pʰ tʰ kʰ/
Dialects such as Aeolic and Doric had how many distinctions that were the same at one point in time?
three
Attic Greek lenited to what?
voiceless and voiced fricatives
Aspiration may refer to a sound change of what?
debuccalization
What is breathy voice?
a type of phonation or vibration of the vocal folds
What do some linguists restrict the double-dot subscript ⟨◌̤⟩ to?
murmured sonorants
What is hydrogens chemical symbol?
H
What form can you find hydrogen is on Earth?
molecular
When was hydrogen gas artificially produced for the first time?
early 16th century
What market primarily uses ammonia production?
the fertilizer market
For hydrogen what is the enthalpy of combustion?
286 kJ/mol
What kind of light do hydrogen-oxygen flames make?
ultraviolet light
What are two other dangerous acids?
hydrogen chloride and hydrogen fluoride
What model id used to calculate energy levels of hydrogen?
Bohr model
What kind of movement does the electron not have in ground state?
angular
How many different spin isomers exist?
2
What are some catalysts used in hydrogen cooling
ferric oxide, activated carbon, platinized asbestos, rare earth metals, uranium compounds, chromic oxide, or some nickel compounds
What ind of charge does hydrogen take when mixed with electronegative particles?
positive charge
What is the form of hydrogen and carbon called?
hydrocarbons
 Who suggested that hydride anions existed?character does the H atom have in a hydride?
Gilbert N. Lewis
How many binary borane hydrides are known?
over 100
What chemistry do hydrides serve as bridging ligands?
inorganic chemistry
When hydrogen oxidates, what is it removing?
electrons
What is another term for a bare proton?
H+
Where can oxonium ions be found?
in acidic solution with other solvents
What kind of molecular hydrogen is the H+3 knows as?
protonated
How many natural isotopes does hydrogen have>
3H
Which element is the only that has different names for its isotopes?
Hydrogen
What year was the discovery of hydrogen gas?
1671
How did Lavoisier produce hydrogen for his experiments?
reacting a flux of steam with metallic iron through an incandescent iron tube heated in a fire
Who was the first to liquidize hydrogen?
James Dewar
Who invented the hydrogen filled balloons?
Jacques Charles
Who made the first non stop transatlantic crossing?
the British
In what year did the first hydrogen cooled turbogenerator go into service?
1937
What year was the first nickel hydrogen battery used?
1977
What is the hydrogen atom made up of?
a proton and an electron
Who observed the specific heat capacity of H2?
Maxwell
What percent of normal matter is hydrogen?
75%
In what states is hydrogen mostly found in the universe?
atomic and plasma
How abundant is hydrogen on the earths surface?
third most abundant
What molecular form is found in the interstellar medium?
protonated molecular hydrogen
How does nature produce H2?
expelling reducing equivalents in biochemical reactions
What is an easy way to produce hydrogen?
electrolysis of water
When you combine an alloy of alluminum and gallium to water, what do you get?
hydrogen
The most economical way to prepare hydrogen involves removing it from what?
hydrocarbons
At what pressure does PSA work best in?
high pressures
How can it be recovered through steam?
use of carbon monoxide through the water gas shift reaction
When hydrogen is generated from natural gas, what des it produce?
ammonia
What are the thermochemical cycyles in a testing phase for?
produce hydrogen and oxygen from water and heat without using electricity
What condition is iron and steel alloys slowly oxidized?
anaerobic
Under what condition can ferrous hydroxide be oxidized?
anaerobic
How is hydrogen produced when there is no atmospheric oxygen?
serpentinization by the anaerobic oxidation
What is the most common gas found in power tranformers?
hydrogen
Where are large quantities of H2 needed?
petroleum and chemical industries
Where is hydrogen highly soluble?
rare earth and transition metals
Where else is H2 applied?
in physics and engineering
Why would one use hydrogen mixed with nitrogen?
as a tracer gas for minute leak detection
What isotope is used in nuclear fission?
Deuterium
How is hydrogen used at power stations?
as a coolant in generators
Is Hydrogen considered an energy resource?
not
What form of hydrogen has been discussed as a ussage for fuel?
elemental
Why is hydrogen employed?
to saturate broken ("dangling") bonds of amorphous silicon and amorphous carbon that helps stabilizing material properties
What enzymes are used to produce H2?
hydrogenases
What is the decomposition of water into its components called?
Water splitting
What threats can hydrogen cause to human saftey?
potential detonations and fires when mixed with air to being an asphyxiant in its pure, oxygen-free form
What do physical and chemical properties of hydrogen depend on?
the parahydrogen/orthohydrogen ratio
What do people typically call a web browser?
browser
The primary function of a browser is to use what?
the World Wide Web
When was the first browser created?
1990
Who released Mosaic?
Marc Andreessen
Who released the Internet Explorer browser?
Microsoft
Opera was introduced in what year?
1996
What did Netscape launch in 1998?
Mozilla Foundation
When was the first beta release for Safari?
January 2003
Which browser is the newest to enter the field?
Chrome
What was bundled for free with the Windows OS?
Internet Explorer
Who investigated the bundling of the IE browser with Windows OS?
the European Commission
What browser was automatically included with OS X?
Safari
Which company pays Firefox to make their search engine the default on their browser?
Google
What is the main use of a browser?
to bring information resources to the user
What does URL stand for?
Uniform Resource Locator
What is it called when content is changed from markup to an interactive document?
rendering
What can resources have to connect to other resources?
hyperlinks
Features on a browser can range from minimal with little support to what?
rich user interfaces
What does not allow windows to pop up without consent?
pop-up blockers
A computer program that continues the functionality of a browser is called what?
browser extension
A list of websites a user can click to get back to easy have been what by the user?
bookmarked
HTTP Secure is supported by what?
Most browsers
Quick development of what kind of browsers led to non-standard HTML dialects?
proprietary web browsers
A user interface, UI backend, layout engine and other things are part of what?
Web browsers
What is the capital of Massachusetts?
Boston
When was Boston founded?
1630
What ranks in the top of the country for investment?
businesses and institutions
What was the name before the city was called Boston?
Trimountaine
What year was the Cambridge Agreement signed?
1629
Boston became one of the wealthiest international ports after what war?
the American Revolution
What act was put in place during the Napoleonic wars and the war of 1812?
The Embargo Act of 1807
What was the name given to old Boston families?
Boston Brahmins
Boston was overtaken by Salem, Massachusetts in what type of trade? 
slave trade
What was the City of Boston's name before it was the City of Boston?
the Town of Boston
How did Boston's population change in the 1820's?
Boston's population grew rapidly
What was used to fill a mill pond that became the Haymarket Square?
the crown of Beacon Hill
During what century did businesses move out of Boston to find cheaper labor?
20th century
What year did the first community health center in the US open?
1965
The New York Times bought what famous Boston newspaper?
The Boston Globe
On what date did bombs go off at the Boston marathon?
April 15, 2013
What is the total area of Boston?
89.6 square miles
What is the name of the region that surrounds Boston?
Greater Boston
What s Boston sometimes called?
city of neighborhoods
How much of Inner Bostons land area did not exist when the city was founded?
More than two-thirds
Most of the city lies in which USDA plant hardiness zone?
6b
On what coast is Boston located?
the North Atlantic
During what seasons is fog common in Boston?
spring and early summer
About what was the population of Boston in 2010?
617,594
What percentage of the City of Bostons population is 19 and under?
21.9%
What is the average household income in Boston?
$51,739
What percent of Boston's population was white in 1950?
94.7%
What people form the largest ethnic group in the city?
People of Irish descent
How many Jewish people live in the City of Boston?
25,000
What neighborhoos has a high rate of hispanics?
the East Boston neighborhood
In 2014, what percentage of the city identified as Christian?
57%
How many member attended the Catholic Church in the Boston area in 2010?
two million
What rank does Boston hold as far as being an economically powerful city in the world?
among the top 30
How many college students does Boston attract?
more than 350,000
The city is innovative becaus eit has access to what type of capital?
venture capital
A large part of Boston's economy is made up of what?
Tourism
Mutual funds and insurance are what type of industry?
financial services
How many students are in Boston Public schools?
57,000
How many member of the Association of American Universities are in Boston?
four
Babson College is what type of institution?
Smaller private schools
Wher e is Lesley University College of Art and Desighn located?
Metropolitan Boston
What Univesity located outside of Boston still holds a large presence in the city?
Harvard University
Since the early 1990's, Boston has had less of what type of crime?
violent crime
How many reported murders were there in 2008?
62
Boston is culturally similar to what area?
greater New England
Known for its literary culture, Boston has also been called what?
Athens of America
The Boston Symphony Orchestra is a member of what?
Big Five
What event occurs on New Year's Eve?
First Night
What is preserved in the Boston national Historical Park?
several historic sites
How long has Boston been a religious center?
from its earliest days
How is the air quality in Boston?
generally very good
Allston Green District is an example of what?
cleaner energy facilities
Whos is the late Mayor of Boston?
Thomas Menino
Lots of older buildings are supported by what?
wooden piles
How many major North American sports leagues are there?
four
Who plays their games at Fenway park?
The Boston Red Sox
What is the TD Gardens former name?
the FleetCenter
What league do the new England patriots belong to?
the National Football League
How many NCAA Division I members play in Boston?
four
What is one of the most famous sporting events in the city?
the Boston Marathon
What is the oldest public park in the US?
Boston Common
What ranking does the Boston park system have?
third-best
How often are elections for mayor held in Boston?
every fourth year
What is the capital of Massachusetts?
Boston
Where is the John F kennedy Federal office building located?
The city
Boston is split between how many congressional districts?
two
The Boston Globe and the Boston herals are two of Bostons what?
daily newspapers
Where is the main office of Siglo21?
Lawrence
What is the name of the citys only lesbian owned LGBT magazine?
The Rainbow Times
What is the national ranking of Bostons radio market?
11th largest
What ranking does the Boston television DMA hold?
8th largest in the United States
What is the Longwood medical and Academic Area located next to?
the Fenway district
A lot of Bostond medical facilities are associated with what?
universities
What Airport is located in East Boston?
Logan Airport
How did the streets of downtown Boston grow?
organically
How many people in Boston use public transportation?
nearly a third
Where do Amtrack's Northeast corridor and Chicago lines start?
South Station
What is Bostons nickname?
The Walking City
Bicycling magazine named Boston one of the worst cities in the US for what?
cycling
What is the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System?
a Chinese satellite navigation system
What was the first BeiDou system called?
the BeiDou Satellite Navigation Experimental System
What is the name of the second generation of BDS?
BeiDou Navigation Satellite System
When did China begin constructing the third BeiDou system?
mid 2015
How long ago was the BeiDou Satellite System first launched?
Fifteen years
What is the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System named after?
the Big Dipper constellation
Who first came up with the idea for a Chinese satellite navigation system?
Chen Fangyun and his colleagues
What was the name of the first satellite launched for the system?
BeiDou-1A
When did China announce service plans for the BeiDou system?
2 November 2006
When was the fourth satellite for the BeiDou-1 system launched?
February 2007
When was the first satellite for the BeiDou-2 system launched?
April 2007
How much was China going to invest in the European Galileo positioning system project?
€230 million (USD296 million, GBP160 million)
What is the BeiDou-1?
an experimental regional navigation system
What type of satellites does the American GPS system use?
medium Earth orbit satellites
When was the first satellite for the BeiDou-1 system launched?
October 31, 2000
In 2007, what was the reported resolution of the BeiDou system?
as high as 0.5 metres
How much did a BeiDou-1 ground terminal cost in 2008?
around CN¥20,000RMB (US$2,929)
Who is the chief designer of the BeiDou navigation system?
Sun Jiadong
What was the BeiDou-2 system previously known as?
COMPASS
What are the ranging signals of the BeiDou system based on?
the CDMA principle
What types of services will be offered by the BeiDou system?
a free service to civilians and licensed service to the Chinese government and military
How many frequencies does the COMPASS system use?
four bands
How much information about the COMPASS system did Chinese authorities release?
little was officially announced
When was the Compass-M1 satellite launched?
14 April 2007
What frequency bands does Compass-M1 transmit in?
E2, E5B, and E6
When did the investigation of the signals transmitted by Compass -M1 begin?
immediately after the launch of Compass -M1 on 14 April 2007
What is the difference between the "I" signals on E2 and E5B and the civilian codes of GPS (L1-CA and L2C)?
Compass signals have somewhat greater power
When did the Compass system begin operation on a trial bases?
December 2011
When did the BeiDou-2 system start offering services?
December 2012
When did the Beidou system begin operating in China?
December 2011
When was the Compass-M1 satellite launced?
2007
When did the BeiDou system begin transitioning to global coverage?
2015
When were the 18th and 19th satellites for the BeiDou system launched?
July 25, 2015
What will the three latest satellites provide after testing?
navigation services
What is the name for the rules issued by the heads of the Church?
Canon law
What is the Greek term for canon?
kanon
How many ancient canons exist in the Eastern Church?
eighty-five
Who enforces canon law in Catholicism?
the Church's hierarchical authorities
What is another name for the collections of other Catholic churches led by the Supreme Pontiff?
rites
What are the permanent sources of positive ecclesiastical law?
immutable divine and natural law
What entity believes itself to have the longest standing internal mechanism of laws in Western Europe?
The Catholic Church
Which period followed the jus antiquum?
the jus novum
In what ways did the Eastern Catholic Churches's legal systems vary from those of the west?
different disciplines and practices
What profesional roles from secular law does the Catholic Church also employ?
lawyers, judges
What ancient law served as the precursor to the type of legislation seen in the Roman Catholics?
Roman Law Code of Justinian
What continent's laws developed alongside those of the Church?
Europe
What school of thought serves as a model for canon theory?
Aristotelian-Thomistic
Prior to 1917, what church was in a similar situation as the Eastern Catholic Churches as regards its legal system?
the Latin or Western Church
When was the original Code of Canon Law published?
1917
What language is used by members of the Orthodox denomination?
Greek
In what institution do church courts still have relevant functions in secular society?
the Church of England
What is a term for the Church of England and churches that align with it?
the Anglican Communion
As of 2004, what do all Anglican Communion Churches share?
principles of canon law
What are two other possible terms for canon law among some denominations?
"practice and procedure" or "church order"
What group took issue with the Roman canons?
the Presbyterians
What is a fundamental collection of documents of the Lutherans?
The Book of Concord
How many official radio and television networks does the government of Somalia operate?
two
Who funded the new telecommunications firms in Somalia?
Somali entrepreneurs
Sprint, ITT, and Telenor are examples of what?
multinational corporations
What year did Dahabhiil acquire the majority of Somtal network?
2008
Investing in what Industry is a sign that Somalia's economy is continuing to improve?
telecom industry
What year was the national Communications act enacted?
2012
What is the name of the Somali postal service?
Somali Post
When was the infrastructure of the postal service destroyed?
during the civil war
How many phases made up the reconstruction plan for the Somali Post?
three
What year did postal service in Somalia resume?
2013
When was Radio Mogadishu established?
during the colonial period
Mustaqbal Media Corporation is based where?
Mogadishu
About how many private radio stations does the region of Puntland have?
six
What TV station is the main public service broadcaster in Somalia?
Somali National Television
Horn Cable Television and Universal TV are examples of what?
private television networks
Where was The Mogadishu Times published?
Mogadishu
What is the IST?
Information Support Team
What years was the first ISP established in Somalia?
1999
What was the numbe rof Somali internet users in the year 2000?
200
What is the STA?
Somali Telecommunication Association
As of what year were dial up, wireless , and satellite services available?
2009
Mogadishu and Bosaso are what in Somalia?
major cities
What wsas the satellite internet growth rate as of 2009?
10% to 15% per year
Hormuud Telecom launched what service in 2012?
Tri-Band 3G
What year did Somalia receive its first fiber optic connection?
2013
What place is Catalan named for?
Catalonia
What is the second most often spoken language is Catalonia?
Catalan
From what language did Catalan come?
Vulgar Latin
What happened in 1975-1982?
Spanish transition to democracy
What is the division of Catalan dialects?
Eastern and Western
What does Catalan have in common with other Romance languages in the same area?
many traits
How many genders does Catalan have?
two
What is Catalan the derivitive of?
Catalonia
When did the reference Catelaner first appear?
mid 14th century
Where is Valencia used instead of Catalan?
Valencian Community
What language did Catalan descend from?
Vulgar Latin
When did macaronic Latin start showing signs of Catalan?
11th century
When did Catalan rulers broaden their territory to north of the Ebro River?
11th and 12th centuries
When was the golden age of Catalan?
Low Middle Ages
Who wrote Tirant lo Blanc?
Martorell
When were Castille and Aragon united?
1479
When was the Treaty of the Pyrenees?
1659
When did France outlaw Catalan?
1789
When did the French obtain Algeria?
1833
What is the official language of France?
French
What declined in the 16th and 17th centuries?
Catalan
What did the 19th century produce in Catalan literature?
revival
Since the transition what language has been proclaimed mandatory in schools?
Catalan
Where has Catalan always been the only language?
Andorra
What kind of  shifts are taking place in Catalan speaking areas?
language shift processes
What is Catalan being supplanted by in Alicante?
Spanish
To what branch of Gallo-Romance languages is Catalan attributed?
Occitano-Romance
What is Catalan a variety of?
Occitan language
What does Catalan share with nearby Romance languages?
many traits
What is the similarity between Catalan and Italian?
87%
What has Catalan often been considered?
dialect of Spanish
What area was Roman Tarraconensis language different from?
rest of Roman Hispania
What is the origin of language elements found in Catalan and not in Spanish?
Germanic
What element in Spanish is more prominent than in Catalan?
Arabic element
What are the linguistic blocks Catalan lies between?
Ibero-Romance and Gallo-Romance
What are the Paisos Catalans
Catalan Countries
How is Catalan different from other Romance languages?
many monosyllabic words
What is the standard pronunciation of Catalan?
Central Catalan
Where does Catalan get its vowel system?
Vulgar Latin
How many  reduced unstressed are vowels are there in Central Catalan?
three
What field studies the placement of Catalan in the world?
Catalan sociolinguistics
What do the dialects of Catalan feature?
uniformity
What is the major difference between the two blocks?
treatment of unstressed a and e
What two dialects does Western Catalan include?
Northwestern Catalan and Valencian
What comprises the standard pronunciation of Catalan?
Central Catalan
What is the vowel system of Catalan?
Vulgar Latin
Where do unstressed vowels reduce to three?
Eastern Catalan
In what language do unstressed vowels reduce to four?
Majorcan
What do unstressed vowels reduce to in Western Catalan?
five
What form has the same /e/ as Central and Western?
Balearic
What language is parle or tem ?
Valencian
Where do you find medieval plurals?
nouns and adjectives
What do the two blocks of Catalan display differences in?
word choices
What is Standard based on?
Eastern Catalan
What is jo compro changed to ?
jo compre
Where is IEC's standard used?
the Balearic Islands
Where has the IEC adapted its standard to the Alguerese dialect?
Alghero
Where is the Catalan speaking part of Aragon?
La Franja
How is Valencian classified?
Western dialect
How do linguists view Catalan and Valencian?
as the same language
Who established the AVL?
Valencian parliament
What do most Valencian people think Valencian is in regards to Catalan?
different
What has produced a great deal of controversy?
clash of opinions
As what can divergence in the groups be shown?
as an archaism
What can use words from different dialects?
Literary Catalan
Where does Catalan get a lot of its learned words?
Greek and Latin
What is common in Romance languages?
agglutination
What is the usual masculine suffix?
-o
What kind of words does Catalan have few of?
suppletive couplets
What languages have a tendency to lose gender-invariable adjectives?
Occitan and French
What is the usual way to make a plural?
suffix -s
What does the large number of omissions  make the determinatives?
complex
What has Central Catalan mostly abandoned?
unstressed possessives
How many forms of personal pronouns are there in Catalan?
13 distinct forms
What is this distinction similar to?
all other Romance languages
What languages use extrapositioning in sentences less than Catalan? 
French or Spanish
What is Catalan verbal inflection ?
more complex
What system is common to Western Romance?
Catalan verbal system
How are Catalan verbs grouped?
into three conjugations
How many surnames does everyone in Spain have?
two
What is the official language of Estonia?
Estonian
Who is interested in the degrees of phonemic length?
linguists
What Uralic language branch contains Estonian?
Finnic
Who spoke German in what came to be known as Estonia?
Baltic Germans
What kind of harmony has Estonian lost?
vowel
What was the minimum number of waves through which modern Estonians migrated into Estonia?
two
When did the Northern Crusades happen?
13th century to 1918
How far back do the first written records of Estonia's Finnic languages go?
13th century
What was the first Estonian language book to be published?
a Lutheran manuscript
What two people are responsible for the first still in existence book in the Estonian Language?
S. Wanradt and J. Koell
Which Estonian poet's works were printed from 1810 to 1820?
Kristjan Jaak Peterson
In the years between 1918 and 1940 how many Estonian language books were printed?
23,868
What Age's ideas allowed Estonian writings to gain significance?
Age of Enlightenment
What year did Estonia's War of Independence take place?
1919
What happened to Estonia during WWII?
invaded and occupied
What historical event once again freed Estonia?
collapse of the Soviet Union
Following the departure of the Soviet immigrants what was the percentage of Estonians in Estonia?
above 70%
How many groups of Estonian dialects are there?
two
What dialect is also known as the central dialect?
the keskmurre
What dialects comprise the southern group?
the Tartu, Mulgi, Võru (Võro) and Setu (Seto) dialects
From what script does the Estonian language get its alphabet?
Latin
What principles usually govern the Estonian orthography?
phonemic principles
 In what Orthagraphy does Modern Estonian orthography have its basis?
Newer Orthography
In Soviet international publications what language's transliteration are Estonian words and names often back-transliterations from?
Russian
What is the typological form of Estonian?
transitional
What language lacks gendered nouns and pronouns?
Estonian
What other language has a telicity contrast?
Finnish
From what system is a distinctive future tense lacking?
verbal system
Close to 33 percent of Estonian's vocabulary belong to what group of languages?
Germanic languages
What two letters can be replaced with each other a lot of the time in Estonian?
'b' & 'p'
Who was the journalist who was also a language planner?
Ado Grenzstein
Of all of Estonian's language reformers who is the most well known?
Johannes Aavik
What languages did Aavik know?
Ancient Greek, Latin and French
What is a source for the particles in paper?
wood
When was the pulp papermaking process developed?
2nd century AD
Who is credited with the papermaking process?
Cai Lun
In what century did the papermaking process spread from China to Europe?
13th
What Latin word is paper derived from?
Papyrus
What is separated from the cellulose fibres?
lignin
How many chemical pulping processes are there?
three
Besides the thermomechanical process, what is a process used in pulping?
groundwood pulp
Recylced papers can be made with what new type of pulp?
virgin
What type of clay improves the characteristics of the pulps used in papermaking?
china clay
How is the water removed by force from a sheet of paper?
Pressing
What is the main component of drying the paper?
air
Besides calcium, coated paper has a thin layer of what?
china clay
What contraption is used to carry the paper to the web printing presses?
reels
What type of paper is produced on a machine like the Fourdrinier?
wove paper
What type of lines does wove paper not exhibit?
Laidlines
What tool is often used in measuring the thickness of paper?
caliper
What characteristic is paper usually classified by?
weight
What ISO sizing system does Europe use?
ISO 216
Commercial paper is commonly defined by what?
length and width
Most countries besides the US use what ISO System?
ISO 216
What is the lightest density of paper produced?
tissue paper
What acidic salts were commonly found in the early types of paper produced?
Alum
What particle is associated with the yellowing of newspapers?
lignin
Who sponsored the tests that show that all papers are subject to acid decay?
Library of Congress
How many times more yield does the mechanical pulping process produce when compared to to the chemical pulping process?
twice
In the last 40 years, how much has worldwide paper consumption risen?
400%
What percentage of total waste can be attributed to paper?
40%
What process of papermaking is most heavily linked to the pollution?
bleaching
What product used in the sale ofpaper is newly used by manufacturers in an effort to be more environmentally friendly?
paperfoam
What is newly used as a coating in high grease applications?
corn protein
When was the football league established?
1987
How many teams were there in the 2015 season?
12
As of 2016, how many regular season games does an AFL team play?
16
What was the name of the AFL development league?
af2
Who was Jim Foster's employer prior to his founding the Arena Football League?
the National Football League
What football league began in 1982?
the United States Football League
In what city and state did the arena football test game take place?
Rockford, Illinois
How many teams did the Arena Football League originally have?
four
On what date was the inaugural game of the AFL played?
June 19, 1987
On what date did Foster apply for a patent on arena football?
September 30, 1987
In 1987, what television station sometimes showed arena football games?
ESPN
Who was the coach of the Pittsburgh Gladiators in 1989?
Joe Haering
What team did Art Schlichter play for?
Detroit Drive
Where did the Drive franchise relocate to?
Massachusetts
What notable event in the AFL first occurred in 1993?
first All-Star Game
What team did the New York CityHawks become after moving to Hartford?
New England Sea Wolves
What AFL team did Kurt Warner play for?
Iowa Barnstormers
How many games made up the AFL season in 2003?
16
Who was the commissioner of the Arena Football League for the first half of 2008?
David Baker
What team shut down in October 2008?
New Orleans VooDoo
On what date was the dispersal draft first scheduled to occur?
December 2
What numbered season did Arenafootball2 in 2009?
tenth
What was the job title of Ed Policy?
interim commissioner
On what date was it reported that the AFL was considering bankruptcy?
July 20, 2009
What percent of af2 was owned by the AFL?
50.1
Who owned the Dallas Desperados?
Jerry Jones
On what date did AF1 announce that it would be called the Arena Football League?
February 17, 2010
Along with the New Orleans VooDoo, Kansas City Brigade, Philadelphia Soul and Georgia Force, what former team returned for the 2011 season?
San Jose SaberCats
What anniversary did the Arena Football League celebrate in 2012?
25th
On what date did the AFL announce its title sponsorship deal?
December 12, 2012
What was the name of the Los Angeles-based team added in 2013?
Kiss
What band was Vince Neil a part of?
Mötley Crüe
Who was the first president of the AFL?
Jerry Kurz
On what date was it reported that the Las Vegas Outlaws were shutting down?
August 9, 2015
What day of the week was October 30, 2015?
Friday
Who were the defending champions of the Arena Football League?
San Jose SaberCats
On what date did the AFL take control of one of its teams?
January 6, 2016
On what date did the league announce its schedule for 2016?
December 10, 2015
Where did ArenaBowl XX take place?
Las Vegas
A contract with what television network led to the discontinuation of exhibition games in the preseason?
NBC
What league did the AFL found in China?
the China American Football League
Who created Ganlan Media?
Martin E. Judge
When does the CAFL plan on start its first season?
2016
In what month did the AFL season originally begin?
May
On what date did ESPN buy a minority share of the AFL?
December 19, 2006
Affiliates of what network broadcast Arizona Rattlers games?
Fox Sports
After a hiatus, in what year did the AFL begin operations again?
2010
In what year did AFL games temporarily cease to be broadcast on NFL Network?
2012
Who was the AFL's 2013 national broadcast partner?
CBS Sports Network
Who was the Arena Football League's 2014 broadcast partner?
ESPN
What was the first Arena Football League video game?
Arena Football
Who wrote War on the Floor: An Average Guy Plays in the Arena Football League and Lives to Write About It?
Jeff Foley
In what year did the AFL begin operating under the single-entity model?
2010
What was the normal per game attendance of AFL games in the 1990s?
10,000–11,000
What was the AFL's average per-game attendance in 2010?
8,135
Along with pop, soul, rhythm and blues, quiet storm, and rock, what musical style influenced adult contemporary?
easy listening
Along with harmonies, what aspect of music is emphasized in adult contemporary?
melody
What type of song is frequently seen in the adult contemporary genre?
romantic sentimental ballads
What age group does adult contemporary radio typically focus on?
25–44
What is lite AC otherwise known as?
soft AC
From what decade of easy listening radio does adult contemporary trace its heritage?
1960s
Along with Frank Sinatra, Doris Day, Johnny Mathis, Nat King Cole, and Perry Como, who was a prominent early adult contemporary radio artist?
Connie Francis
What chart did the Easy Listening chart begin to diverge from?
the Hot 100 chart
During what decade did rock and roll music first rise to popularity?
1950s
What was another term for easy listening stations?
beautiful music
As of what year was hard rock a mainstream type of music?
1965
At the end of what decade did the Hot 100 and Easy Listening charts begin to converge?
1960s
During what period was adult contemporary its most commercially successful?
the mid-to-late 1970s
What genre of music was was listening to by a different demographic than hard rock?
disco
Along with Linda Ronstadt, Elton John, Rod Stewart and Elvis Presley, what rock musician sometimes had songs featured on adult contemporary radio?
Billy Joel
Along with rock and roll, what genre of music was sometimes featured on Easy Listening radio?
R&B
When did the Adult Contemporary chart receive its current name?
April 7, 1979
Along with Richard Marx, Bonnie Tyler, George Michael, Phil Collins, and Laura Branigan, what artist was also frequently played on Contemporary Hit Radio stations?
Michael Jackson
In the 1970s, what two genres were not particularly successful on the adult contemporary charts?
disco or new wave
Along with electronic pop, what type of music was the most successful in the 1980s?
ballad-oriented rock
What artist issued the album known as "the first true Adult Contemporary album of the decade"?
Linda Ronstadt
What decade saw the emergence of alternative rock?
1990s
Mainstream artists from what decade generally did not have success on the adult contemporary charts?
1980s
What milestone did Celine Dion, Mariah Carey, Phil Collins, Michael Bolton, Whitney Houston and Shania Twain share on the 1990s adult contemporary charts?
multiple number ones
What was the name of the chart created by Billboard in 1996?
Adult Top 40
Who invented the term "urban adult contemporary format"?
Barry Mayo
Who performed the song "Unbreak My Heart"?
Toni Braxton
What radio station format was sometimes regarded as a type of adult contemporary?
smooth jazz
What is Adrian Moreira's job title?
senior vice president for adult music
Who have hot AC format radio stations had to change the music they play?
less and less new music fits their bill
What was the name of DJ Sammy's mix of "Heaven"?
the "Candlelight Mix"
Along with Josh Groban, what notable pop artist started out his career on adult contemporary radio?
Michael Bublé
What genre of music are bands like Feist and Wilco?
indie rock
Along with the recession, what broad economic trend marked the decline of adult contemporary radio stations?
the 2005-2007 economic downturn
Generally speaking, what is the earliest decade represented by the "oldies" on soft AC stations?
1960s
What radio format was described as being "the acoustic equivalent to Prozac"?
soft adult contemporary
In what country is soft adult contemporary called "EZ Rock"?
Canada
Along with romantic and sexual relationships, family and work, what do soft adult contemporary songs sometimes discuss?
raising children
What radio station formats faced demographic pressures in the 1960s and 70s?
jazz and big band
Along with Andy Williams, Johnny Mathis, Nana Mouskouri, Celine Dion, Julio Iglesias, Barry Manilow, Engelbert Humperdinck, and Marc Anthony, what notable artist is featured on the soft AC format?
Frank Sinatra
Along with classic hits, what type of music do hot adult contemporary stations feature?
contemporary mainstream music
Madonna, Cher, Gloria Estefan and Kylie Minogue are artists in what genre of music?
dance-pop
What station did Mike Marino work for in 1997?
KMXB
What age group is Urban AC focused towards?
adult
What other adult contemporary radio format is urban AC similar to?
soft AC
What radio format is similar to urban AC but features older soul and R&B songs?
rhythmic oldies
What radio format consists of ballads and slow jams?
quiet storm
Along with urban adult contemporary and smooth jazz, what station format might feature music from Sade?
mainstream AC
Along with soft AC, on what station format might adult contemporary R&B be featured?
urban AC
What genre of music did Patti Austin perform?
jazz-R&B fusion
What is CCM an acronym of?
Contemporary Christian music
What AC format is especially known for playing Christmas music in the Christmas season?
soft AC
When does Christmas music on AC format stations usually begin?
the week before Thanksgiving Day
In what century was the term matter defined excluding energy phenomena like light and sound?
20th
What kind of particles make up every object in the world that can be touched?
atoms
How many phases of matter are there?
four
What similar term is often used interchangeably with matter, although the two differ slightly in modern physics?
mass
What term does science not have a universally-accepted scientific definition for?
matter
What was Westminster Abbey's original name?
Collegiate Church of St Peter at Westminster
What year did the construction of the church begin?
1245
What was the name of the fisherman in lore that saw a vision of Saint Peter near the Abbey?
Aldrich
What architectural design was St Peter's abbey considered?
Romanesque style
Who were the first monarchs crowned at Westminster Abbey?
Harold Godwinson and William the Conqueror
Where is the only existant depiction of Edward's abbey?
Bayeux Tapestry
Who became a powerful force after the Norman Conquest?
The abbot and monks
What did the abbot remain as a town built around the abbey?
Lord of the Manor of Westminster
What was the abbey to Norman kings?
coronation site
Who added a Perpendicular style chapel?
Henry VII
When was the abbey's annual income £2400–2800?
1535
When did Henry VIII take direct royal control?
1539
When was Westminster Diocese dissolved?
1550
The abbey was regiven to the Benedictines under whom?
Mary I of England
When did the abbey suffer damage?
1640s
When were the western towers built?
between 1722 and 1745
What was designed for the west front of the abbey but not built?
A narthex
Westminster Abbey was the third highest place of learning after which two places?
Oxford and Cambridge
Who painted the icons hung in the abbey in the 1990s?
Sergei Fyodorov
Where was Henry III crowned?
Gloucester Cathedral
What is the name of the throne used for coronation?
King Edward's Chair
What kind of church is Westminster Abbey?
collegiate church
How many lay vicars are there?
12
Henry III rebuilt the abbey in honour of whom?
Edward the Confessor
Where were aristocrats buried from the Middle Ages?
inside chapels
Oliver Cromwell began buring national figures in the abbey starting with whom?
Admiral Robert Blake
In the early 20th century it became more common to bury what kind of remains?
cremated
When was The Unknown Warrior buried?
11 November 1920
Where is the memorial chapel of the airmen of the RAF?
At the east end of the Lady Chapel
When was the formal funeral of Diana, Princess of Wales?
Saturday September 6, 1997
What are also in the precincts of Westminster Abbey?
Westminster School and Westminster Abbey Choir School
Who built the organ?
Harrison & Harrison
What part of the organ is not connected or playable?
the Celestial Organ
When were the bells overhauled?
1971
Who cast the two service bells?
Robert Mot
Under whom was the chapter house built?
Henry III
What style is the octagonal chapter house?
Geometrical Gothic style
What kind of tiled pavement is in the chapter house?
mid-13th-century
What formed the undercroft of the monks' dormitory?
The Pyx Chamber
The Pyx Chamber and chapter house are under guardianship of whom?
English Heritage
What is located in the vaulted undercroft beneath the monks' dormitory?
The Westminster Abbey Museum
What belonging to Henry V is in the museum?
funeral saddle, helm and shield
Who modelled the effigies in the museum?
sculptor Patience Wright
What was recently added to the museum exhibit?
13th-century Westminster Retable
What was proposed for the abbey in June 2009?
major building work
What will be created in the medieval triforium?
The Queen's Diamond Jubilee Galleries
k
ks
What part of China (North, East, South, West) is Nanjing located?
East
How long has Nanjing been important?
over a thousand years
How long ago did "Nanjing Man" live?
more than 500 thousand years ago
When did Nanjing become a state capital?
229 AD
What happened prior to the collapse of the Western Jin dynasty?
the unification of the region
How long was Nanjing the capital of the Southern dynasties?
more than two and a half centuries
What has survived in Nanjing's suburbs?
A number of sculptural ensembles
When was Nanjing made a capital again?
during the Southern Tang (937–976)
Who was the first emperor of the Ming dynasty?
Zhu Yuanzhang
When was Nanjing considered to be the biggest city in the world?
from 1358 to 1425
What is the name of the famous mausoleum in Nanjing?
Ming Xiaoling Mausoleum
How far from Nanjing is the Yangshan Quarry?
15–20 km (9–12 mi) east of the walled city
What Admiral called Nanjing his home?
admiral Zheng He
When did Beijing lose to Li Zicheng's rebel forces and the Manchu-led Qing dynasty?
1644
When did the Hongguang Emperor leave Nanjing, having been defeated?
late May 1645
When was the Qing dynasty in power?
1644–1911
Who lived in buildings that would later come to be known as the Presidential Palace?
the Qing viceroy and the Taiping king
When was the Republic of China founded?
January 1912
When was Nanjing re-established as the capital of the Republic of China?
1927
When did Japan invade Manchuria?
1931
When was the National Government of China moved to Chungking?
A few days before the fall of the city
When did the Communist troops cross the Yangtze River?
21 April
How large is Nanjing, in miles?
2,548 sq mi
What city is northeast of Nanjing?
Yangzhou
What is the east-west waterway near Nanjing?
Yangtze River
What type of climate does Nanjing enjoy?
a humid subtropical climate
How many types of minerals are found in Nanjing?
40
What lakes are in the middle of Nanjing?
Xuanwu Lake and Mochou Lake
When did a thick wave of smog first appear in Central and Eastern China?
2 December 2013
What is the full name for Nanjing's government?
"People's Government of Nanjing City"
What was the population of Nanjing in 2010?
8.005 million
What is the overwhelming ethnic majority in Nanjing?
Han nationality
In addition to textiles, what other industry is Nanjing known for, since the Three Kingdoms period?
minting
In what time period did Nanjing transform from a producer to more of a consumer city?
Into the first half of the twentieth century
What did the government build in Nanjing during the 1950's?
a series of state-owned heavy industries
What type of industries are now dominant in Nanjing?
Service industries
What was Nanjing's GDP in 2013?
RMB 801 billion
What are the three types of transport in Nanjing?
land, water and air
Nanjing's railway is important, and is located in what region of China?
eastern China
How many railway stations are there in Nanjing?
17
What type of highways let commuters get to cities fast?
Express highways
What are the main types of public transportation?
bus, taxi and metro systems
What is Nanjing's airport called?
Lukou International Airport
What is the largest inland port for China?
Port of Nanjing
When was the very first Nanjing Yangtze River Bridge finished?
the 1960s
How many ancient capitals does China have in its history?
four
How is Nanjing seen, from a cultural perspective?
as a “city of culture”
Where do some of the country's most prominent art groups call home?
Nanjing
What is the name of China's oldest stage art?
Kunqu
What is the name of the largest art gallery in Jiangsu Province?
Jiangsu Art Gallery
When was the festival of climbing on the city wall celebrated?
January 16
What city is considered to be a place that is popular with tourists?
Nanjing
When was the Nanjing Library completed?
1907
What city contains some of the finest and oldest museums in all of China?
Nanjing
What can most of Nanjing's multi-purpose theatres be used for?
convention halls, cinemas, musical halls and theatres
Where have Nanjing's after-hours activities typically been located?
around Nanjing Fuzimiao (Confucius Temple) area along the Qinhuai River
When did more commercial streets become built in Nanjing?
In the past 20 years
What is considered to be a typical food for a Nanjing resident?
radish
Generally, what types of teams call Nanjing home?
many professional sports teams
Which sports center started in 1952?
Wutaishan Sports Center
When was the Nanjing Olympic Sports Center built?
2005
When was Nanjing announced as the host city for the 2nd Summer Youth Olympic Games?
10 February 2010
Nanjing is considered one of the most pretty cities in what region?
mainland China
What was the designation of Nanjing?
the national capital
How long has Nanjing been considered the education hub of southern China?
more than 1700 years
What city is the de facto capital of Switserland? 
Berne
What is the official language of Bern?
German
In what year did the historic old town in the center of Bern become a UNESCO World Heritage Site?
1983
Who was the founder of the city of Bern?
Berchtold V, Duke of Zähringen
When was the earliest evidnce of settlement in the city centre?
12th century
The medieval city is a foundation of what family?
Zähringer
what year did Bern join the Swiss Confederacy?
1353
What river was the city near?
River Aare
What year was there a huge fire?
1405
What year was Bern occupied by French troops?
1798
What congresses were held in Bern?
First and Second Internationals
What percent of the populatin of Bern resident foreigners?
30%
Where is Bern located?
the Swiss plateau in the Canton of Bern
What peninsula is Bern located on?
Aare
What type of ground was Bern built on?
uneven ground.
What is 33.6% of the land in Bern?
forested
How does the government of Bern operate?
as a collegiate authority.
Who has the majority of the seats in Bern's City Council?
left parties
Who holds the legislative power?
The City Parliament
Are the sessions of City Parliament private or public?
public
Which party has the absolute majority of the seats?
left parties
What is the population of Bern?
140,634
What is the main lanuage of Bern?
German
What did the city decide again?
having twinned cities
How many Swiss men live in Bern?
35.4%
What percent of the population are 19 years old and under?
15.1%
How many people were single in Bern in 2000?
59,948
What is the average of people per household in Bern?
1.8 persons
What was the average price to rent an average apartment in Bern?
1108.92 Swiss francs
What percent of the population were Roman Catholic?
24.5%
The structure of Bern's city centre is mainly what type of buildings?
medieval
What is the Barengraben?
a bear pit
Where is the national parliment housed?
The Federal Palace
Where is Albert Einstein live?
the Kramgasse 49
What is the Rose Garden also known as?
Rosengarten
Where are the statues at in the Old Town?
public fountains
What does the UNESCO consider the entre Old Town?
a UNESCO World Heritage Site
What subtitles are included in the movies?
German and French subtitles
What year was the Football World Cup Final in Bern?
1954
What is the major hockey league team of Bern?
SC Bern
What year did Bern want to host the Winter Olympics?
2010
What was Berns unemployment rate in 2010?
3.3%
How many full time jobs were there in 2008?
125,037.
How many workers commute into the municipality?
94,367
Where are the majority of the buildings for the University of Bern?
Länggasse quarter
What percent of the population has completed non-mandatory upper secondary education?
39.2%
Do you have to go to the one year of kindergarten?
non
How many students were attending school during the 2009-2010 school year?
10,979
How many libraries are in Bern?
8
How many pupils lived in another municipality?
9,045
What connects Marzili to Bundeshaus?
A funicular railway
What is the name of Bern's airport?
Bern Airport
What term is used interchangeably with daylight saving time?
summer time
Who first suggested daylight saving?
George Hudson
What used to be the main draw on electricity?
incandescent lighting
What can be affected by DST that might disrupt plans for a vacation?
travel
What kind of societies usually follow a regular daily schedule year-round?
Industrialized
How much earlier do people's routines happen because of daylight savings?
one hour
What two sources of energy use do DST proponents say are reduced by the time change?
lighting and heating
What latitudes see more extreme changes in the length of their days and nights throughout the year?
higher latitudes
What kind of clocks did the Romans use?
water clocks
Who first published the proverb about waking up early and going to bed early to be "healthy, wealthy, and wise"?
Benjamin Franklin
What particular kind of scientist was George Hudson?
entomologist
What year did Germany decide to try DST?
1916
What event in the 1970s led more regions of North America to use DST?
energy crisis
Has the world seen many or few changes in the observation of DST?
many
At what local time does the United States change the time?
02:00
During what part of the week is the time change most often scheduled?
weekend
Which time zone in Europe always has a one-hour lead on Central European Time?
Eastern European Time
What year did the European Union standardize their Summer Time?
1996
In the southern hemisphere, what aspect of DST is about the reverse of that of the northern hemisphere?
Beginning and ending dates
Which part of Brazil observes Daylight Saving Time?
southern Brazil
What leader said daylight saving gives people more "opportunities for the pursuit of health and happiness"?
Winston Churchill
Which political supporter of Willett's proposal had already used the half-hour version of DST at Sandringham?
Edward VII
What industrialist from Pittsburgh campaigned strongly in favor of DST?
Robert Garland
Which country continued to observe DST nationwide despite the fact that the war had ended?
Britain
What month and year were two neighboring cities in Minnesota on different time schedules?
May 1965
What percentage of Queensland voted against the daylight saving referendum in 1992?
54.5%
What was the name of the organization that supported adding an additional hour to their clocks all year?
the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents
What do Muslims call the month when they fast between sunup and sundown?
Ramadan
What year did Russia decide to never turn its clocks back?
2011
Which group is more likely to support DST: urban workers or rural farmers?
urban workers
What major health risk do people who oppose DST say it increases?
heart attack
Most people agree that a standardized schedule by DST is more practical than trying to do what in the morning on our own?
get up earlier
What percentage of all electricity usage in the U.S. and Canada is from residential lighting?
3.5%
Have studies shown DST generally increases or reduces gas consumption from cars?
increases
What category of goods that are used in outdoor activities benefit from the extra hour of daylight from DST?
sporting goods
Is it better to harvest grain before or after the morning dew evaporates?
after
What year did a change in DST policy cost North America somewhere between $500 million and $1 billion in extra work?
2007
In what year did the NBS revisit the DOT's 1975 study and find traffic fatalities unaffected?
1976
What did the LEAA say was reduced 10% to 13% in Washington, DC during daylight savings?
violent crime rate
There are more fires in the fall and winter because people burn more candles and turn what on to keep warm?
heating
What do societies with standardized work schedules have more time for because of the increase in afternoon daylight from DST?
outdoor exercise
What natural rhythm is disrupted by seasonal changes?
circadian rhythm
Do emissions from vehicle exhaust cause lower or higher pollution before dawn?
higher
During the fall time shift from 02:00 to 01:00, how many times will a clock show the times between 01:00:00 and 01:59:59?
twice
What year did an accident occur at a German facility with molten steel because of the change to DST?
1993
Willett's first suggestion was to change clocks by 20 minutes how often?
weekly
What does DST inherit from standard time?
disadvantages
What author is credited with explaining the usage of daylight saving time and daylight savings time with an "s" in the English Journal of the (American) National Council of Teachers of English?
Richard Meade
Which term did Willett use in his 1907 proposal to refer to DST?
daylight saving
What usually changes when a place observes DST?
The name of local time
What phrase is often used in North America when speaking about DST?
spring forward, fall back
What can cause issues with installed computer systems?
Changes to DST rules
What system of time do some applications use so they won't have problems with time changes?
UTC
Where do most systems go to get the data they use to calculate local time?
the IANA time zone database
The IANA database works by connecting names to what information about the location?
historical and predicted clock shifts
Less sophisticated systems might just support a TZ value with one start rule and how many end rules?
one
Similar to systems using zoneinfo, Microsoft Windows calculates DST by doing what?
specifying the name of a location
What single year did Windows 95 use to apply rules to Israel's time changes?
1995
What does Microsoft Windows use internally for its real-time clock?
local time
What file system do recent Windows versions use?
NTFS
What phrase describes keeping adjusted summer hours year-round?
permanent daylight saving time
In which direction do countries like Russia and Argentina shift their time zones that could be considered all-year DST?
westward
Places like Spain and parts of France effectively go by DST in the winter but add what in the summer?
an extra hour
What does RIBA stand for?
Royal Institute of British Architects
What was Riba's first name?
Institute of British Architects in London
What caused the change of the Institute's name?
the grant of the royal charter
When did the Royal Institute receive its charter?
1837
What was the central aim of the Royal Institute?
the general advancement of Civil Architecture
What sets forth the standards by which the Royal Institute functions?
the Byelaws
What was the first Latin phrase used by the Royal Institute?
Usui civium decori urbium
What organization was the Royal Institute instrumental in establishing?
the Architects' Registration Council of the United Kingdom
When did the Royal Institute celebrate its 100th anniversary?
1934
When does the Royal Institute's Guide indicate the first RIBA Board was established?
1904
What organization's policies regarding acceptance of professional qualifications prompted thoughts of revamping ARCUK?
European Union
What is the function of the Royal Institute's Visiting Boards?
to assess courses for exemption from the RIBA's examinations in architecture
How many people have membership in the Royal Institute?
44,000
What is the Royal Institute of British Architects' street address?
66 Portland Place
How many satellite offices does the Royal Institute run in the UK?
a dozen
What is the name of the Royal Institute's business operation?
RIBA Enterprises
What are three divisions of RIBA Enterprises?
RIBA Insight, RIBA Appointments, and RIBA Publishing
What is another name for the Royal Institute Library?
The British Architectural Library
What was the RIBA Library's first address?
9 Conduit Street
Where is the Royal Institute Library's Reading Room located?
66 Portland Place
When did the Victoria and Albert Museum and the Royal Institute of British Architects start a formal relationship?
2004
In what space at the V&A is the Architecture Gallery located?
Room 128
What does the Royal Institute of British Architects award the Stirling Prize for?
the best new building of the year
What are events that a company can sponsor when it is planning a new construction project or redesigning an existing one?
Architectural design competitions
Aside from the ARB, what other organization offers accreditation services for schools serving architects?
RIBA
What is the first step in the Royal Institute's guidelines for education?
three-year first degree
What did the Royal Institute support in order to keep up with housing in mainland Europe?
minimum space standards
NARA is responsible for what collection of archives?
National Archives
What is the official that oversees the operation of NARA?
The Archivist
What office publishes the Federal Register?
The Office of the Federal Register
Which arm of NARA handles grants?
The National Historical Publications and Records Commission
OGIS provides what resource for the government and public?
FOIA
What year was the National Archives Establishment established in?
1934
Who was the first Archivist at the National Archives?
R.D.W. Connor
When was the reclassification program originally intended to end?
2007
What year was Executive Order 13526 created?
2010
What types of groups are NARA's holdings classified into?
record groups
Where are archival descriptions of holdings under the custody of NARA stored?
Archival Research Catalog (ARC)
Most of NARA's holdings are available to sector?
public domain
Besides census records and passenger lists, what NARA documents are particularly useful to genealogists?
naturalization records
What is the informal name of The National Archives Building?
Archives I
Since when has all filming and photography in the Rotunda for the Charters of Freedom been banned?
February 25, 2010
What is the second facility of NARA named?
Archives II
Where is The Washington National Records Center located?
Suitland, Maryland
Where is the National Archives Building located?
downtown Washington
What do the facilities designated to each area of the US specialize in?
documents of federal agencies and courts pertinent to each region
Where are some of the items relevant to JFKs medical treatments housed?
Federal Records Centers
What agency maintains the Presidential Library system?
NARA
Libraries that are established for other presidents are operated by private foundations, historical societies, and what government entities?
state governments
In what year did the National Archives make strides towards making its holdings more widely available?
2006
In January of 2007, what internet company did the National Archives partner with?
Fold3.com
In what year did the National Archives announce that it would make its collection of Universal Newsreels available for purchase online?
2007
What did the National Archives announce in May of 2008?
digitize selected records including the complete U.S. Federal Census Collection
Which Google affiliated website did the National Archives decide to use in 2009?
YouTube
In 2011, what sort of Wikipedia addition did the National Archives make?
Wikiproject
what type of islands are the Tristan da Cunha
volcanic
what territory is Tristan da Cunha part of?
the British overseas territory of Saint Helena
in what year were the islands first sighted?
1506
what was the name of the first long term settler? 
Jonathan Lambert
in what year did the UK annex the islands?
1816
in what year did Prince Alfred visit the island?
1867
what is one reason that caused the island to become less used?
the opening of the Suez Canal
what year were the islands declared dependent of saint helena?
1938
During what war was the island used as a Royal Navy station?
World War II
What year was an atomic bomb detonated near the island?
1958
What year was the island evacuated due to an eruption?
1961
In what year was the island hit by an extratropical cyclone?
2001
what year was a virus induced flu reported?
2007
What year did a large fire destroy the fishing factory?
2008
When did the freighter Nightingale run aground?
March 2011
When did a boat arrive at the island with damage during a race?
November 2011
What is the abbreviation by which the University of Kansas is known?
KU
In what two cities are there satellite locations for KU's medical school?
Wichita and Salina
How many people attended the University of Kansas at its Edwards and Lawrence locations in the fall semester of 2014?
23,597
On what date was KU's Lawrence campus made official?
February 20, 1863
On what geographic feature was KU built?
Mount Oread
How many institutions participated in the V-12 program?
131
What part of KU serves students learning about government?
the Robert J. Dole Institute of Politics
How many campuses are run by KU?
five
What program at the University of Kansas was rated highest among its peers?
city management and urban policy
What KU school is abbreviated as SADP?
The University of Kansas School of Architecture, Design, and Planning
What is the name of the publication that ranks schools engaged in architecture and design education?
DesignIntelligence
What kind of institution is KU's School of Business?
public
Who considered the business school of the University of Kansas among the best Midwestern business institutions?
Princeton Review
In 2014, what issue of U.S. News & World Report provided rankins for law schools?
Best Graduate Schools
What is the acronym for an organization that serves as an accreditation body for engineering schools?
ABET
Who published America's Best Colleges in 2016?
U.S. News & World Report
What former leader of a car manufacturing company attended KU?
Alan Mulally
What is the full name of KU's journalism school?
The William Allen White School of Journalism and Mass Communications
What are the three constituents of the medical center at KU?
the School of Medicine, School of Nursing, and School of Health Professions
In what city is the Edwards Campus located?
Overland Park
Who provides statistics on educational costs?
the College Board
What was first instituted for first year students in the 2007-2008 school year?
fixed tuition rate
What was launched in 1965 by the business school at KU?
interdisciplinary management science graduate studies in operations research
What division of the University of Kansas contributed to the development of the internet?
academic computing
What colors are worn by KU's athletic teams?
crimson and royal blue
When did KU start fielding a football team?
1890
What was the first year in which a men's team played basketball at the University of Kansas?
1898
Who is in charge of all sports teams at KU?
Sheahon Zenger
How many times have KU teams appeared in the National Debate Tournament?
70
What are two events non-sports at which school songs are often heard?
commencement and convocation
What is the name of the newspaper printed every day by the University of Kansas?
University Daily Kansan
In what two forms of media is the Daily Kansan available?
print and online
What are the call letters of the National Public Radio affiliate that broadcasts from KU?
KANU
When was KU's first student union constructed?
1926
What is the name of the University of Kansas's foundation?
KU Endowment
What is the name of a publicly-available resource of KU related to community health?
The Community Tool Box
What do you call  government officials using power for illicit private gain?
political corruption
Bribery and embezzelment are forms of what?
corruption
What is considered political corruption is differnt in each what?
country or jurisdiction
Another for of corruption is what?
institutional corruption
What does corruption undermine in politics?
democracy
What two democratic values are soiled due to corruption?
trust and tolerance
Corruption raises the cost of business because of illegal payments in what sector?
private
Economic distortion is created by corruption in the public sector by diverting what into capital projects?
public investment
African dictators often have what kind of bank accounts?
Swiss
Which researchers studied corruption from Sub-Saharan countries from 1970 to 1996?
University of Massachusetts Amherst
Where is corruption most noticeable?
countries with the smallest per capita incomes
What kind of employees received payments?
ghost employees
Corruption aids what as far as the environment is concerned?
environmental destruction
Who has stated that apolitical food problems do not exist?
Amartya Sen
Even if a harvest is good, food security can be crippled when a government has tendencies toward what?
kleptocracy
Along with food aid, what is most at risk in these countries?
construction
Substandard what is often one way for corruption to enter the construction field?
workmanship
These types of corruption can harm what?
the public health
Corruption can determine certain things in what kind of activities?
sports
The difference between corruption that is public or private looks like what?
artificial
What do you call paying government officials to use their position in their office?
a bribe
What two types of bribery is the international community trying to get prosecuted as separate?
active and passive bribery
In some countries there is no formal deal but what that makes prosecuting bribes difficult?
mutual understanding
Selling or trading government position influence is called what?
influence peddling
Giving government jobs to supporters is called what?
Patronage
What is it called when relatives are favored over other people?
nepotism
Corruption also occurs when an official wants to cause some form of harm to who?
enemies
What is it called when a person is dishonest or corrupt for his own gain?
Gombeenism
Illegal interference with an election is called what?
Electoral fraud
When entrusted funds are stolen, it is called what?
Embezzlement
What is the public official's share called when involved in corrupt bidding?
kickback
What is not limited to just government officials?
Kickbacks
When groups that are antagonistic to each other form a coalition for hidden gain, it is called what?
unholy alliance
When was Jinrong a police chief in this area?
1920s and 1930s
What was Noriega's government accused of being?
narcokleptocracy
According to Thomas Jefferson, when the media is free and people are literate they are what?
safe
Who found evidence that where the media had freedom there was less political corruption?
Brunetti and Weder
Who discovered the correlation that congressman who have less local press coverage work less for the people who elected them?
Snyder and Strömberg
What did the analysis show mixed results for?
growth of the Internet
How many measures does Transparency International publish right now?
three
How many firms throughout the world have been surveyed by the World Bank in regards to its corruption study?
over 100,000
A second set of corruption metrics has been compiled by Global Integrity and what other organization?
International Budget Partnership
The second wave of metrics focuses on what level of corruption?
local
What is the British aid agency's research called?
Drivers of Change
Public spending has risks of kickbacks, embezzlement and what?
cronyism
Selling government property is highly at risk for what?
cronyism
Providing a government service from the lowest form of local government that can adequately provide the service is called what?
principle of subsidiarity
What is it called when higher ups in government embezzle from the government's treasury?
kleptocracy
In their pursuit of more money and power, corrupt dictators often ignore what?
economic and social problems
Who was the dictator in Zaire from 1965 to 1997?
Marshal Mobutu Sese Seko
What magazine had articles about Castro benefiting from corruption?
Forbes
What is OAS?
Organization of American States
Why is it difficult to measure corruption?
imprecise definitions of corruption
How many methods of judiciary corruption are there?
two
Radio broadcasts and what help deter corruption?
Mobile telecommunications
What decade saw international initiatives to combat corruption?
1990s
What does GRECO stand for?
Group of States Against Corruption
What language is the word dialectus from?
Latin
What is the common definition of dialect?
a variety of a language that is a characteristic of a particular group of the language's speakers
What is the other definition of the term dialect?
a language that is socially subordinated to a regional or national standard language
Along with grammar and pronunciation, what distinguishes a dialect?
vocabulary
What is another term for a standard or standardized dialect?
standard language
What does a nonstandard dialect usually not have compared to a standard dialect?
institutional support
In what country is Limón Creole English spoken?
Costa Rica
What trait is the most common way of determining if languages are dialects?
mutual intelligibility
What term refers to another way in which dialects are distinguished from languages?
linguistic authority
According to most linguistics, who speaks a dialect?
everybody
Who developed the abstand and ausbau languages framework?
Heinz Kloss
The language of the Pennsylvania Dutch is a dialect of what language?
German
What term avoids distinguishing between languages and dialects?
languoid
With what social class it the standard dialect commonly associated?
the elite class
What non-linguistic developments influence the status of a language?
historical and political
What event is regarded as a landmark in the development of modern nationalism?
the French Revolution
Max Weinreich is a linguist of what language?
Yiddish
When is the term 'German dialects' used in regard to the German language?
traditional regional varieties
After what entities are German dialects traditionally named?
Germanic tribes
In what geographic part of Germany are dialects more common?
South
What dialect of German is spoken in Switzerland?
Swiss German
What type of language was Low German in the Middle Ages?
an ausbau language
What are Italian dialects termed in the Italian language?
dialetti
What is a major reason why the Latin-based regional Romance languages of Italy should be regarded as independent languages rather than dialects of each other?
they lack mutual intelligibility
What language is modern standard Italian derived from?
Florentine Tuscan
What Italian nationalist spoke of the importance of a national Italian language?
Alessandro Manzoni
During what war did a large number of Italian men first learn standard Italian?
World War I
Regional Italian dialects are often influenced by regional languages and what other language?
standard Italian
What language family do most of the languages of Italy belong to?
Italo-Dalmatian
Campidanese Sardinian is a variant of what language?
The Sardinian language
Along with British English, what is the major variant of the English language?
American English
Along with Serbian, with what language is Macedonian mutually intelligible?
Bulgarian
Lebanese people of what religion sometimes consider Lebanese to be a distinct language?
Christian
Along with Morocco and Tunisia, in what country are the Darijas spoken?
Algeria
During what century did the Russian government claim that Ukrainian was a Russian dialect?
19th
What nation conquered Ukraine during the First World War?
The German Empire
After what war did Moscow begin to repress the Ukrainian language?
World War II
In what country is the Surzhyk dialect spoken?
Ukraine
Who was the president of Moldova in 1996?
Mircea Snegur
From what did Chinese characters derive?
logograms
From the perspective of historical linguists, what are Romance languages dialects of?
Latin
Italian is significantly mutually comprehensible with what other Romance language?
Spanish
What Italian word is similar to the French word "avoir"?
avere
What language could all Western languages be considered dialects of?
Interlingua
What term is used to refer to the period from 1750 to 1820?
the Classical period
How is European art music distinguished from non-European and popular music?
its system of staff notation
When did the term "classical music" appear? 
the early 19th century
Who sang Medieval plainchant?
monks
J.S. Bach's fugues create a coherent harmonic logic that would be impossible for what other style of music?
live improvisation
The score does not provide complete and exact instruction on how to do what?
perform a historical work
Classical music in the 2000s has lost most of its tradition for musical what?
improvisation
Instrument currently used in most classical music where invented before what period?
the mid-19th century
What was the medieval flute made from?
wood
What genre was predominately Gregorian chant during the earlier medieval period?
liturgical
Many instruments originated during what era?
the Renaissance
Brass instruments were traditionally played by profession guild members during what era?
the Renaissance
Vocal music in the Renaissance is noted for an increasingly elaborate what?
polyphonic style
The cello, contrabrass and fortepiano were new instruments during what period?
Baroque
What was less standardized during the Baroque era?
the types of instruments used in ensembles
From the 1750's to the early 1830's is the era of Mozart and what other composer?
Haydn
Classical musicians continued to use many instruments from what era?
Baroque
The violin, cello, contrabass and what other instrument form the string section of the orchestra?
viola
To whom is the "standard complement" attributed to?
Beethoven
What instrument did the modern piano take over for in the Romantic era?
fortepiano
When do saxophones first appear in scores?
the late 19th century
What is the name of the modified member of the horn family appearing in several works by Strauss?
The Wagner tuba
What type of instrument appears occasionally in the 20th and 21st century styles of classical music?
Electric
In what did the bagpipe fill an important role?
early classical music,
What type of temperament became accepted during the 18th century?
equal temperament
What have classical trained performers done extensively?
studied classical music
Performance of classical music requires proficiency in what type of reading?
sight-reading
What brothers have had significant classical training?
Van Halen brothers
What gender of musician has historically made up a large amount of professional orchestras?
male
In what year did the Vienna Philharmonic face protests in the US?
1997
The National Symphony Orchestra is led by what gender of violinist?
female
Works of classical repertoire exhibit what in their use of orchestration and harmony, and form?
complexity
What are self-contained pieces in longer works called?
movements
What period was from 500-1400?
Medieval
What composer continued the counterpoint and fugue?
Haydn
A Contemporary composition written in the style of an earlier era is described with what prefix?
neo
When does the Egyptian orchestra date to?
2695 BC
The Medieval period begins with the fall of what city?
Rome
When was the Renaissance era?
from 1400 to 1600
The notation of music on a what began to take shape at this time?
staff
The record is part of what wind family?
the flute family
When did many of the ideas that make up western classical music take shape?
The common practice period
Basso continuo and complex tonal counterpoint characterize what type of music? 
Baroque
Keyboard music became popular during what era?
Baroque
What theories began to be put in wider practice?
equal temperament
When was the Classical era?
1750 to 1820
What type of instrument became more refined during the classical era?
Wind
Increased attention to extended melodic lines characterized what era?
Romantic
Who controlled musical institutions before the 19th century?
wealthy patrons
To what number did the size of the orchestra grow to?
100
What did European cultural ideas follow?
colonial expansion
What style does 20th century classical music encompass?
post-Romantic
What gender are most composers described in music textbooks?
male
What type of view is that classical music is primarily written musical tradition?
modernist
Did student who actively listen to classical music before studying have higher or lower scores?
higher
Which composer had an effect named after him?
Mozart
What harmed the music industry in the 20th century according to Shawn Vancour?
the commercialization of classical music
Works from the Golden Age of music matches action to what?
classical music
What does classical music convey in movies and television?
refinement or opulence
What does the written score not usually contain explicitly? 
instructions
Improvisation is integral before what took a high significance?
the score
What once played an important role in classical music?
Improvisation
How are staples of classical music often used?
commercially
Folk musicians are not commonly what?
classically trained
How are performers expected to play a work due to written transmission?
in a way that realizes in detail the original intentions of the composer
When was improvisation in classical music performance common?
the Baroque and early romantic eras
Popular music from the composer's time was incorporation into what?
Classical music
Pachelbel's Canon has influenced popular songs since what decade?
the 1970s
What is the largest Indo-European ethno-linguistic group in Europe?
Slavs are the largest Indo-European ethno-linguistic group in Europe.
West Slavic people consist of which nationalities?
Poles, Czechs and Slovaks
*Slověninъ, plural *Slověne, is the Slavic autonym reconstructed in what?
Proto-Slavic
What slavic word denotes "people who speak the same language?"
slovo
Slovo, slava, and slukh all originate from what Proto-Indo-European root?
*ḱlew
The word Slav could be derived from what Middle English word?
sclave
Who argues that the word *slava once had the meaning of worshipper?
Lozinski
The earliest mentions of Slavic raids are across what river?
River Danube
The Slavs make their first appearance in Byzantine records when?
in the early 6th century
Who wrote in 545 that "the Sclaveni and the Antae actually had a single name in the remote past; for they were both called Spori in olden times."?
Procopius
Who tells us that the Sclaveni had swamps and forests for their cities?
Jordanes
Who mentions a Daurentius (577–579) that slew an Avar envoy of Khagan Bayan I?
Menander Protector
An uncertain relationship was held between the Slavs and who?
the Veneti
Slavic-speaking tribes were part of what prior to becoming known to the Roman world?
multi-ethnic confederacies of Eurasia
When did Slavs appear on Byzantine borders?
Around the 6th century
What appeared among the Slavs when their migratory movements ended?
the first rudiments of state organizations
When did Samo become the ruler of the first known Slav state?
the 7th century
What three free Slavic states were in the world as of 1878?
the Russian Empire, Serbia and Montenegro
Whose plan for the East entailed killing, deporting, or enslaving the Slavs?
Hitler's
The first half of the 20th century was marked by what in Russia and the Soviet Union?
succession of wars, famines and other disasters
When did Pan-Slavism develop as a movement?
In the 19th century
When was the word "Slavs" used in the national anthem of the Slovak Republic?
1939–1945
Many Slavic populations that were part of the Warsaw Pact are originally from where?
the Russian SFSR, Ukrainian SSR and Byelorussian SSR
What movement came into prominence in the mid-19th century that emphasized the common heritage and unity of all the Slavic peoples?
Pan-Slavism
What began as an almost exclusively linguistic and philological enterprise?
Slavic studies
What depends on what religion is usual for the respective Slavic ethnic groups?
The alphabet
What is the supposed ancestor of all Slavic languages?
Proto-Slavic
Proto-Slavic is sometimes referred to as what?
Common Slavic or Late Proto-Slavic
When were pagan Slavic populations Christianized?
between the 6th and 10th centuries
Who is customarily divided along geographical lines into tree major subgroups?
Slavs
Ethnic affiliation of who has become an ideological conflict?
the Lemkos
Most Slavic Muslims now opt for what ethnicity?
Bosniak
This identity continues to be used by a minority throughout the what former republics?
Yugoslav republics
Where are Bunjevci located?
Bačka
What sub-groups of Slovenes are extinct?
Carantanians and Somogy Slovenes
Serbs of Croatia are mostly descendants of who?
the Grenzers
What two DNA haplogroups predominate in modern Slavic peoples?
R1a1a [M17] and I2a2a
When did Rębała and colleagues studied several Slavic populations with the aim of localizing the Proto-Slavic homeland?
2007
Who searched for specifically Slavic sub-group of R1a1a [M17]?
Marcin Woźniak and colleagues
What is distinguished by the presence of Y Haplogroup N?
Pomors
I2a1b1 is typical of what populations?
South Slavic populations
When did Boris Arkadievich Malyarchuk use a sample of Czech individuals to determine the frequency of "Monigoloid" "mtDNA lineages"?
2008
DNA from how many Russians show that the Y chromosomes fall into seven major haplogroups all characteristic to West Eurasian populations?
1228
What is the posulated homeland region of the Slavs?
Ukraine
Where did South Slavs and Germanic Gepids intermarried with Avar invaders?
In the Western Balkans
Who settled in parts of England?
Polabian Slavs (Wends)
Cossacks came from what backgrounds?
Tatars and other Turks
Where did the Gorals reside?
southern Poland and northern Slovakia
Slavs that remained in the Carpathian basin were assimilated into who?
the Magyar or Romanian population
What's the estimated population of Southampton?
253,651
What is the big retail shopping center in Southampton called?
WestQuay
What other city merged with Southampton after the 2001 census?
Portsmouth
What year did the Romans invade Britain?
AD 43
What people established a settlement in what is now the St. Mary's area of Southampton?
Anglo-Saxons
What kind of raids disturbed Hamwic in the 9th century?
Viking
In what year did the Norman Conquest take place?
1066
Ruins of merchants' homes that survive today are evidence that Southampton had rich people in what century?
12th
Who led the invasion of Southampton in the 14th century by the French and others?
Charles Grimaldi
What's the name of the wall tower that was the first of its kind in England built for artillery purposes?
God's House Tower
The only remaining piece of the motte and bailey castle can be seen near what modern Southampton street?
Castle Way
In what year was the friars' water supply system built in Southampton?
1290
What war was taking place in the 1640s in England?
English Civil War
What skilled trade was a central industry for Southampton in the Middle Ages?
shipbuilding
What battle did King Henry leave for in 1415?
Battle of Agincourt
What did the military use Southampton for during wars in the 18th century?
embarkation
When did Southampton turn into a spa town?
1740
In what historical period did Southampton expand greatly?
Victorian era
Who wrote "The Cruise of the Steam Yacht North Star"?
John Choules
What famous ship left Southampton's port carrying the Pilgrim Fathers?
Mayflower
Who designed the Supermarine Spitfire?
R J Mitchell
How many people died because of the bombs dropped on Southampton?
630
What style of architecture partially survived the war?
Georgian
What document declared the upgrade of University College at Highfield?
Royal Charter
In what year did an act establish the Hampshire County Council?
1888
Southampton's history of administrative independence dates back to the reign of which king?
King John
What king's charter recognized Southampton as its own county?
Charles I
What county did the city of Southampton become administratively independent of in April of 1997?
Hampshire County
How many concillors sit on Southampton's City Council?
48
How many representatives does Southampton have in parliament?
three
How many cities or towns are there in all of England and Wales with a ceremonial sheriff acting as the Mayor's deputy?
16
What city in France does Southampton City Council have a twinning link with?
Le Havre
At which tip of Southampton Water is Southampton located?
northern
What's the name of the public quay that's been in Southampton since the 13th century?
Town Quay
How many high tide peaks does Southampton Water get?
two
Along which border of Southampton does the River Test run?
western
What's the largest park in Southampton?
Southampton Common
How many Local Authorities are there in England?
354
What kind of climate does Southampton have?
oceanic
What source of geothermal power sits below Southampton's center?
hot water aquifer
What race makes up the vast majority of Southampton's population?
White
In 2011, what was the estimated population of Southampton inside city limits?
236,900
Are there more males or females in Southampton?
males
By what percentage did the population of Southampton increase from 1996 to 2004?
4.9
How many jobs were there in Southampton in March of 2007?
120,305
What sector provides about a quarter of Southampton's available jobs?
health and education
What was Southampton's average annual salary in January of 2007?
£22,267
About how much of UK's passenger traffic did Southampton handle during the inter-war period?
half
What century saw more diverse industries come to Southampton?
20th
How many people in the Southampton area receive hospital services from University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust?
500,000
What's the name of the UK's national mapping agency?
Ordnance Survey
What's the largest retail center in Southampton?
WestQuay Shopping Centre
What type of tall buildings are being planned on Southampton's waterfront?
skyscrapers
Going by 2004 calculations, how much does Southampton contribute to the region's economy each year?
£4.2 bn
What museum reopened on July 30th, 2011 after a huge renovation?
Tudor House Museum
In what month each year is the Southampton Boat Show held?
September
What's the biggest theatre in Southampton?
Mayflower Theatre
What gallery in Southampton houses a Designated Collection?
The Southampton City Art Gallery
In addition to the Mayflower Theatre, what's Southampton's other big venue for live music?
the Guildhall
What nightclub in Southampton was nominated for the UK's best small nightclub?
Junk
What popular RnB singer hails from Southampton?
Craig David
What program with a direction in its name does the BBC broadcast from Southampton?
South Today
How many community FM radio stations are there in Southampton?
2
What's the new name of the station formerly known as The Saint?
The Breeze
What's the nickname of the Southampton Football Club?
The Saints
Local Southampton football leagues have what day of the week in their names?
Sunday
At what venue does the Hampshire County Cricket Club play?
the Rose Bowl
What's Southampton's hockey club named?
Southampton Hockey Club
What's the oldest rugby team in Southampton?
Trojans RFC
What feature does Southampton have plenty of that provides for water sports and yachting?
marinas
What facility is the center of Southampton's public sports and outdoor activities?
Southampton Sports Centre
What magazine awarded Southampton "fittest city in the UK" in 2006?
Men's Fitness
What College American Football team calls Southampton home?
Southampton Stags
Who is responsible for policing Southampton?
Hampshire Constabulary
Who handles fires in Southampton?
Hampshire Fire and Rescue Service
How many crimes overall are reported for each 1,000 people in Southampton?
202
Is Southampton's higher education sector weak or strong?
strong
What year was the University of Southampton founded?
1862
How many students attend Southampton Solent University?
17,000
How many standalone sixth form colleges are there in Southampton?
two
More than what percentage of the students surveyed said they'd been bullied?
40
Which level of schools in Southampton are the worst behaved in the UK?
secondary
Which motorway located north of Southampton links up England's south coast?
M27
Southampton's railways provide freight services and what other important services?
passenger services
In addition to the southern and eastern sections of Southampton, what other section has local train service?
central
What competing railway company tried to open a rail route in the 1880s?
Didcot, Newbury and Southampton Railway
In what town is Southampton Airport located?
Eastleigh
What cruise line has its headquarters in Southampton?
Carnival Corporation & plc
What brand of cruise ships has a special importance to Southampton?
Cunard Line
What does Southampton call the event when three ships named after queens all visit the city?
Arrival of the Three Queens
What cruise line celebrated a landmark anniversary in Southampton in July of 2012?
P&O Cruises
How many internal ferry services does Southampton serve?
three
In what decade was the ferry port built in Southampton to carry people to exotic destinations on the continent?
1960s
What form of public transport do most people in Southampton use now?
Buses
What road does First use stops around to leave a terminal available for other buses?
Pound Tree Road
Who are the actors in international law?
sovereign states and international organizations
What must a party to a treaty do to prevent being held liable under international law?
live up to their obligations
How are the agreements in a treaty expressed?
in words
What is shared by most treaties since the late 19th century?
a fairly consistent format
What term describes a common clause in a treaty stating that the representatives of the parties have communicated their full powers?
boilerplate
What follows the preamble in a treaty?
numbered articles
What type of resolution to disputes is typically outlined in a treaty?
peaceful
What is the formal name for the closing protocol of a treaty?
the eschatocol
Whose signatures appear at the very end of a treaty?
the parties' representatives
Bilateral treaties are concluded between how many states or entities?
two
What is a treaty concluded among several countries?
A multilateral treaty
What are caveats to a state's acceptance of a treaty?
Reservations
A more permissive rule regarding what emerged to encourage the largest number of states to join treaties?
reservations
When a state adds reservations to a treaty, other parties to the treaty can respond to those reservations in what ways?
accept those reservations, object to them, or object and oppose them
How many ways are there to amend an existing treaty?
three
What is a treaty that supplements a previous treaty in international law?
a protocol
The Kyoto Protocol is associated with what treaty?
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
A treaty that puts all of its obligations in action simply by becoming a party to it is known as what?
self-executing
What type of treaty cannot be acted on without the proper change in domestic law?
a non-self-executing treaty
What principle is often invoked by legal experts when interpreting the language of treaties?
principle of maximum effectiveness
No one party to a treaty can do what to the other parties?
impose its particular interpretation of the treaty
What are international tribunals and arbiters often called upon to resolve in regards to treaties?
substantial disputes over treaty interpretations
What are agreements between states within the United States called?
compacts
Parties to a treaty may disagree over a desire to create an obligation under what?
international law
What is the Treaty of Waitangi internationally considered to be?
documents under domestic law
Traditionally, what must a state do in order for an obligation to arise in international law?
consent
What is an example of a treaty from which it is not possible to withdraw?
the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
What factor, in practice, allows a state to withdraw from any treaty at any time?
sovereignty
What happens to a state's obligations under a treaty upon its withdrawal from the treaty?
terminated
What may be invoked as grounds for permanently terminating a treaty?
A material breach
What might a tribunal or an arbiter be asked to determine regarding a breach of a treaty?
the seriousness of a breach
Some treaties contains provisions for what to happen if certain defined conditions are met?
self-termination
What might result in a party to a treaty claiming a treaty should be terminated even absent an express provision for its termination?
a fundamental change in circumstances
The Islamic Prophet Muhammad carried out a siege against what tribe in February 624?
the Banu Qaynuqa tribe
What angel, according to Muslim tradition, ordered Muhammad to order a siege on the Banu Qurayza?
Gabriel
When are most of the problems created that might result in an otherwise valid treaty being rejected as a binding international agreement?
at the formation of the treaty
A party's consent to a treaty is invalid if it had been given by an agent or body without power to do so under what?
that state's domestic law
If a state's representative ignored restrictions he is subject to by his sovereign, what might that state's consent to a treaty be considered to be?
invalid
The preamble of what states that treaties are a source of international law?
The Law of Treaties
Which articles of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties set out the ways that treaties can be invalidated?
Articles 46–53
What on behalf of a state cannot invalidate that state's consent to a treaty?
own conduct
What type of conduct of a party to a treaty can invalidate the consent of another party?
fraudulent conduct
What will a treaty be if it is in violation of a peremptory norm?
null and void
What is the judiciary organ of the United Nations?
the International Court of Justice
Treaties and their amendments must follow the official legal procedures of what body after their adoption?
the United Nations
The United Nations has been compared to what government in function and effectiveness?
the pre-Constitutional United States Federal government
What part of the Brazilian federal consitution states that the power to enter into treaties is vested in the president and that such treaties must be approved by Congress?
articles 84, clause VIII, and 49, clause I
The Brazilian Federal Supreme Court has ruled that treaties enjoy what position relative to ordinary legislation?
same hierarchical position
What kind of clause does the United States constitution have that the Brazilian constitution does not have with the same effects?
supremacy clause
Treaties, executive agreements, congressional-executive agreements, and sole executive agreements are the same under international law but different with respect to what?
internal American law
In the United States, what is the ratio of executive agreements to treaties?
10:1
In what cases did the US Supreme Court rule that treaties do not have a privileged position over Acts of Congress?
Head Money Cases
Into what 3 lists are legislation subjects divided in India?
Union List, State List and Concurrent List
What formed an important part of European colonization?
Treaties
In what two rare cases were local governments able to mitigate the impact of of European colonization through treaties?
Ethiopia and Qing Dynasty China
What were native peoples able to maintain a minimum amount of through treaties?
autonomy
What legislative act provided that no Indian nation shall be acknowledged as an independent nation with whom the United States may contract by treaty?
Indian Appropriations Act of March 3, 1871
In what year did Josip Broz Tito die?
1980
What position in the League of Communists of Yugoslavia was Tito?
General Secretary
What ethnicity was Tito's mother?
Slovene
When did the second Yugoslavia start?
1943
Where was Josip Broz born?
Kumrovec
When was he conscripted into the army?
1913
How long was Broz in the hospital?
13 months
How many seats did the Communists win in 1920 Yugoslavia?
59
When was Tito sent to Vienna?
1934
When did German forces launch an invasion of Yugoslavia?
6 April 1941
Who succeeded in liberating territory despite conflicts?
Partisans
When did the Partisans create the First Proletarian Brigade?
1941
Who diverted resources to the destruction of the Partisans?
Axis
Who was attacking the Partisans in 1943?
Axis
Who was Tito considered loyal to?
Moscow
In 1944 who called on all Yuboslavs to come together under Tito's leadership?
King Peter II
Who offered amnesty to the retreatig column? 
Tito
Where was the provisional government of the Democratic Federal Yugoslavia assembled?
Belgrade
What was formed as the new secret police?
The State Security Administration
Who was the president of the Bishops' Conference of Yugoslavia?
Aloysius Stepinac
Who had a leading role in liberating Yugoslavia?
Tito
What Italian territory did Yugoslavia acquire after the war?
Istria
Tito did not attend the second meeting of this.
Cominform
Whose methods did Tito use to fight Yugoslav Stalinists?
Stalin
Which country gave Yugoslavia aid when Tito became estranged from the USSR?
US
What name refers to the period of instability during the rift between Tito and the USSR?
Informbiro
In what year did the National Assembly support a crucial bill about "self Management"?
1950
How many high-level Communists were purged in the Slansky trial?
14
Under whose leadership did Yugoslavia become a founding member of the Non-Aligned Movement?
Tito
When did Tito first visit Emperor Haile Selassie?
1954
During what period did Tito pursue a policy of neutrality?
Cold War
Nasser was a leader of what country?
Egypt
When did Tito first visit India?
1954
What country did U Nu lead?
Burma
What was the only Communist country allowed to have an embassy in Stroessner's Paraguay?
Yugoslavia
When did Yugoslavia change its name to the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia?
7 April 1963
What anti-communist archbisoph died in 1960?
Stepinac
Who was the first communist country to open its borders to all foreign visitors?
Yugoslavia
What country did Dubcek lead?
Czechoslovak
In what year was Tito reelected president of Yugoslavia for the sixth time?
1971
What person's calls for unity is credited by western communists of holding together Yugoslavia?
Tito
What flag did protesters of Tito often burn?
Yugoslav
Where did Tito travel in 1977 to reconcile with Chinese leadership?
Beijing
During what year did Tito become increasingly ill?
1979
In what city was Tito interred?
Belgrade
What name was changed to Titograd?
Podgorica
Where does the annual "Brotherhood and Unity" relay race end?
"House of Flowers"
On what year did a Slovenian court find a 2009 naming of a street after Tito to be unconstitutional?
2011
Tito Square is located in what Slovenian city?
Velenje
What is the ethnic origin of the Danube Swabian people?
German
Where in Russia was Tito brought as a prisoner of war in 1918?
Omsk
Where is the Hotel Lux located in Russia?
Moscow
Who did Tito marry in 1940?
Herta Haas
Who was Tito's best known wife?
Jovanka Broz
Which of Tito's grandchildren is a theatre director?
Aleksandra Broz
What is the name of the official residence in Belgrade?
Beli dvor
The grounds at what location were the site of "diplomatic hunts"?
Karađorđevo
With what accent did Tito speak German according to a biographer?
Viennese
What did Tito declare himself to be religiously as an adult?
atheist
What is the name of the largest town or city renamed in Tito's name?
Titograd
What was the name of Tito's personal doctor?
Aleksandar Matunović
In what year did the study in Cryptologic Spectrum come out?
2013
Experts from what country disproved the NSA's report?
Croatian
Starting in what year was the Communist Party outlawed in Yugoslavia?
1920
How many awards and decorations did Josip Broz Tito recieve?
119
In what year did the Tito-Stalin split occur?
1948
Tito was awarded the Star of what country?
Romania
What is the name of the Marshall Islands in its native language?
Aolepān Aorōkin M̧ajeļ
Who were the original settlers of the area that became the Marshall Islands?
Micronesian colonists
In what year did the Marshall Islands gain official recognition by the major European nations?
1874
What term describes the type of government of the Marshall Islands?
presidential republic
What is the ethnicity of most people living in the Marshall Islands?
Marshallese
Who arrived at the Marshall Islands in the second millennium BC?
Micronesians
Which European first saw the Marshall Islands?
Alonso de Salazar
Whose ship was named Florida?
Álvaro de Saavedra Cerón
What was the name given to the island reached by Miguel Lopez de Legazpi on January 9th of 1530?
Los Barbudos
Who arrived at the Marshall Islands in 1788?
Captain John Charles Marshall and Thomas Gilbert
Who was the leader of the group attacked by the people of the Marshall Islands in 1834?
Captain DonSette
What nation had a claim on the Marshall Islands as of 1874?
the Spanish Empire
On what day was a final treaty signed between the Marshall Islands chiefs and the Germans?
November 1
What company ran the Marshall Islands in the late 19th century?
the Jaluit Gesellschaft
What Catholic group was Father Erdland a part of?
the Sacred Heart Jesu Society
What notable historical event occurred in Japan in 1868?
the Meiji Restoration
On what date did the Japanese land on Enewetak?
September 29, 1914
About how many Japanese emigrated to the Marshalls when it was a Japanese colony?
1,000
What was the traditional social organization of the Marshall Islanders?
Matrilineality
What Japanese fleet was based in the Marshall Islands?
6th Fleet
During what conflict did the US occupy the Marshall Islands?
World War II
In what year did American air attacks on the Marshalls begin?
1943
During what conflict did the US occupy the Marshalls?
World War II
In what year did the Cold War begin?
1946
What was the name of the US study of nuclear fallout on Bikini Atoll?
Project 4.1
What document granted sovereignty to the Marshall Islands?
the Compact of Free Association
What is the capital of the Marshall Islands?
Majuro
What part of the Marshall Islands experienced drought in 2013?
the northern atolls
As of 2013, who was the Marshall Islands Minister of Foreign Affairs?
Tony de Brum
What is the governing system of the Marshall Islands?
parliamentary-presidential system
What is the name of the upper house of the Marshall Islands Parliament?
the Council of Iroij
What document governs the defense of the Marshall Islands?
Compact of Free Association
When did the UN Security Council recommend that the Marshall Islands be allowed to join the UN?
August 9, 1991
On what date did the Iranian Navy capture a Marshall Islands ship?
28 April 2015
What nation lies to the west of the Marshall Islands?
the Federated States of Micronesia
How large is the Marshall Islands shark sanctuary in square miles?
772,000
What island do the Marshall Islands claim?
Wake Island
When does the wet season in the Marshalls begin?
May
What feature makes the Marshalls susceptible to harm due to rising sea levels?
its very low elevation
How many millimeters of rain do the northern atolls of the Marshall Islands receive?
1,300
What body did the Marshall Islands join in 2007?
the International Labour Organization
How much money did the Marshall Islands receive yearly from the United States until 2013?
US$57.7 million
On what atoll is a missile test facility based?
Kwajalein Atoll
Along with coconuts, tomatoes and melons, what crops are notably grown in the Marshalls?
breadfruit
In what year was a tuna loining plant constructed?
1999
Who did Witon Barry work for?
the Tobolar Copra processing plant
About how many people lived in the Marshall Islands in 1862?
10,000
What is the ethnicity of most Marshall Islands residents?
Marshallese
What was the previous name of the United Church of Christ?
Congregational
What body operates the state schools in the Marshall Islands?
Ministry of Education (Marshall Islands)
Where is the Marshall Islands International Airport located?
Majuro
What class was slackta in Poland?
noble class
What is another name for folwarks?
manor farms
When, during the partitions of Poland, did the szlachta lose legal and social status. 
1772 to 1795
What was the notion for all polish nobles?
social equals
What german word does the term szlachta come from?
slahta
What did the poles of the 17th century think the term szlachta came from?
German "schlachten"
What were some powerful Polish nobles referred too?
magnates
What term designated the noble class of polish Lithuania common wealth?
szlachta
What simple word does the term szlachta translate too?
nobility
Why did the mistranslation of szlachta come about?
included those almost rich and powerful enough to be magnates down to rascals
What ultimately determined nobility?
hereditary juridical status
Have the origins of the szlachta been clear or obscure?
obscure
WHat was the name of the distinct element from a nnon-Slavic warrior class?
Lechici/Lekhi (Lechitów):
WHat is the earliest surviving use of the clan name of the polish knights?
documentation regarding Raciborz and Albert's tenure
Around what time were the knights and szlachta very similiar?
Around the 14th century
What contributed to the long standing traditions?
geography
What ruled over the tribes?
clans (ród)
WHo established an elite knightly retinue?
Mieszko I of Poland
WHat was a polish nobleman referred to as before the 15th century?
rycerz
WHen was the period of Division?
A.D., 1138 – A.D., 1314
What did some Mozni regard themselves with?
co-proprietors of Piast realms
WHat were nobles named in german language?
die beste leuten
What other group had equal status with the lithuanian nobility?
Polish szlachta
WHo was first invloved in the polonization?
the highest members of the nobility
What group did the Nobility of Ruthenia gravitate its loyalty towards?
Grand Duchy of Lithuania
What other rights were equal to orthodox nobles?
Polish and Lithuanian nobility
Before 1641 the privileged ennoblement was granted by what?
by monarch
Around what time was the total legal number of ennoblement at 800?
between the 14th century and the mid-18th century,
What was the toalt number of legal ennoblements thoughout history of poland and polish commonwealth
1,600
WHo reformed the grand duchy army?
Vytautas the Great
Who defined the significant legislative changes?
Robert Bideleux and Ian Jeffries
What was a rarest rare to become a noble?
service to the state
THe polish nobility had many positives compared to others including what?
many rights
When did kings grant privileges to the nobles?
at the time of their election to the throne
When did buda king casimir issue the heir to his nephew?
1355
When did King Louis of Hungary approve the privilege of Koszyce?
1374
Who establishd the inviolability of nobles property?
King Władysław II Jagiełło
Where did the confirmation of privileges of Jedlnia take place?
at Kraków in 1433
When were the Nieszawa statutes granted?
1454
When did the first free election take place?
1492
Who granted the privilege of Piotrkow?
King John I Albert
When did the Mielnik Polish–Lithuanian union reform?
23 October 1501
When did the Act of "Nihil novi nisi commune consensu" happen?
3 May 1505
What was the movement called also known as execution of laws?
"executionist movement
Who was the last king of the Jagiellonian dynasty?
Sigismund II Augustus
The crown tribunal was created when?
1578
What did powerful leaders of szlachta sought?
gain legal privileges over their peers
Historians estimate how much of magnates make up szlachta?
1%
Magnates recieved gifts often from who?
monarchs
The right to create ordynacja's was important to what group?
magnates
When did the sovereignty of szlachta end?
1795
Who redused 64,000 szlachta to commoner status?
Nicholas I
What was different between the polish nobility and others?
European countries the nobility lost power as the ruler strove for absolute monarchy
How much of the total population was polish common wealth?
10–12%
What class was polands nobility?
closed class
Children inherited polish nobility from whom?
noble mother and father
In theory how were all polish noblemen viewed?
equals
Who could compose the polish landed gentry?
any nobility that owned lands
What was very important to the polish nobility?
Coats of arms
What is the most notable difference between countries?
minorities would be given the noble title
What was rarely used?
brisure
What was the prevalent mentality and ideology called? 
Sarmatism
What two religions were most common?
Roman Catholic or Orthodox
During which period was Vigil a poet?
Augustan
Which of Virgil's works is considered the national epic of ancient Rome?
Aeneid
Who was Virgil's editor?
Varius
In which village does tradition believe Virgil was born?
Andes
Which three studies did Virgil abandon for philosophy?
rhetoric, medicine, and astronomy
Which Hellenistic poet was known for bucolic hexameter poetry?
Theocritus
Who helped finish the Aeneid?
Varius Rufus
Which long didactic hexameter poem did Virgil work on for several years?
Georgics
Octavian defeated Antony and Cleopatra at which battle?
Battle of Actium
Which of Virgil's works is widely considered his finest?
The Aeneid
Who is Aeneas' enemy throughout the Aeneid?
Juno
To whom is Aeneas betrothed?
Lavinia
When did Augustus' victory at Actium against Mark Antony and Ceopatra VII occur?
31 BC
Which book supposedly caused Augustus' sister to faint?
6
According to tradition, where did Virgil travel in 19 BC to revise the Aeneid?
Greece
Who was one of Virgil's most ardent admirers who referenced Virgil in almost every line of his epic?
Silius Italicus
Who cautioned "we ought not to relate their lying fables, lest we fall under sentence of eternal death"?
Gregory of Tours
In which of Dante's works was Virgil a guide through Hell and Purgatory?
Divine Comedy
Which of Virgil's works was said by some to have predicted Jesus' birth?
Eclogues 4
Where did the tradition start which regarded Virgil as a great magician?
Naples
During which time period did the legend of Virgil in his Basket arise?
Middle Ages
During which time period did Virgil's name become associated with miraclous powers?
Middle Ages
Besides Virgilius, which other spelling is permitted in modern usage?
Vergilius
What Country are the Alps located in?
Europe
What affects the climate in Europe? 
The altitude and size of the range
How old was the mummified man discovered at the Austrian-Italian bored?
5,000 years old
The alps is home to how many people?
14 million people
The English word Alps derives from what Latin Word? 
Alpes
There is a theory that in Greek Alpes is a name of what origin? 
Indo-European origin
What words are likely to have common origins?
alb ("white") and albus
The term alp, alm, albe or alpe refers to what in modern languages? 
a grazing pastures in the alpine regions below the glaciers, not the peaks
What are the crescent shaped geographic feature of central Europe?
The Alps
The highest portion of the Alp's range is divided by what? 
the glacial trough of the Rhone valley
What makes the classification of the mountains and subregions difficult?
The variances in nomenclature
The highest peak of the Western Alps is where? 
Mont Blanc
Where are the French Prealps located? 
France
What have been crossed for war and commerce? 
The Alps
What seperates the Otztal Alps and Zillertal Alps?
the Brenner Pass
Who began studying the rock formations of the Alps
naturalists
When did the formation of the alps began?
about 300 million years ago
What was uplifted from extreme compressive stresses and pressure? 
marine sedimentary rocks
What caused the development of the Jura Mountains? 
a late-stage orogeny
What is Stefan Schmid's profession?
geologist
What area do peaks in France, Italy, and Switzerland lie in? 
Houillière zone
Layers of rock from Europe, Africa and the ocean make up what?
the structure of the Alps
What happened to the Alpine orogenic belt that gave it the steep vertical peak?
folded and fractured
What group defined a list of 82 official Apline summits that reach 4,000m?
Union Internationale des Associations d'Alpinisme (UIAA)
When was Mont Blanc first climbed?
1786
When was the first British Mont Blanc ascent? 
1788
What have been mined in the Alps for thousands of years? 
minerals
How long have Alpine crystals been studied and collected? 
hundreds of years
Where did the mountains undergo serve erosion?
Miocene Epoch
Where did Agassiz study during the 1840s?
the Unteraar Glacier
What is an example of a valley carved by glaciers during the ice ages? 
The Inn valley
How do Piedmont glaciers appear?
spread in a fan-like shape
What causes flooding, property damage, and loss of life?
a piece of glacier will detach or break
What cause the glaciers to descend to permafrost levels in some areas? 
High levels of precipitation
What provides Europe with drinking water, irrigation, and hydroelectric power?
The Alps
The Rhine, the Rhone, the Inn, the Ticino and the Po rivers flow from what Country?
Switzerland
Where is the medieval St. Bartholomew Chapel located?
Germany
Who have been studying the impact of climate change and water use?
Scientists
What are a classic example of what happens when a temperate area at lower altitude gives way to higher-elevation terrain?
The Alps
Since when has the severe weather in the Alps been studied? 
the 18th century
What areas experience periodic flooding from rapid snowmelt and runoff?
The areas that are not arid and receive high precipitation
How many zones are the Alps split into?
five climatic zones
What has been projected into the 22nd century for the Alps?
Various models of climate change
How many species of plants have been identified in the Alpine regions?
Thirteen thousand
What is often above the forestry?
a band of short pine trees
What grows in abundance in areas such as the meadows above the Lauterbrunnental?
Alpine plants such the Alpine gentian
What do the plants tend to form at higher altitudes? 
isolated cushions
What gives way to the growth of plant species with secondary metabolites important for medicinal purposes?
extreme and stressful climatic conditions
What has nearly exterminated the trees in many areas?
Human interference
How many species of wildlife habitat the Alps?
30,000 species
What is the largest mammal to live in the highest altitudes?
alpine ibex
Where do many rodents live?
underground
Why do reptiles only live up to the snow line?
they cannot bear the cold temperatures
How long have some species of moths believed to have evolved from the same habitat?
120 million years
Some species of moths and insects show evidence of what?
having been indigenous to the area
When were late Paleolithic communities established along the lake shores?
About 10,000 years ago
Who was Otzi the Iceman?
a mummy of a neolithic body
When did Celtic tribes settle in Switzerland? 
between 1000 to 1500 BC
When was the Second Punic War?
218 BC
What brought the defeat of the Allobrogi?
The Roman expansion
Who established Christianity in the region?
Romans
Much of the medieval period was a time of what?
power struggles
What wars took place during the late 18th century and early 19th century?
the Napoleonic Wars
When did many alpine countries develop heavy protection to prevent new invasion?
After the fall of Napoléon
What became tourist destinations during the 19th century?
the monasteries built in the high Alps
How old was the charcoal placed in the Drachloch cave?
50,000 years
Where was Charles VII from?
France
Who was the first naturalist to ascend the mountains?
Conrad Gessner
Who was the first of many to present the Alps as a place of allure and beauty?
Jean-Jacques Rousseau
Percy and Mary Shelley were inspired by what region's scenery?
Geneva
Where was Adolf Hitler born?
Austrian
By 1940 who occupied many of the Alpine countries?
the Third Reich
Who were trained for the war?
Ski troops
What is the population of the Alpine region?
14 million
Much of what has not changed since the medieval period?
Alpine culture
What has been a traditional occupation for centuries?
Farming
What is an ancient tradition in most Alpine countries?
Cheesemaking
What do people in high villages build their homes according to?
medieval designs that withstand cold winters
The food is passed from the kitchen to where? 
the stube
What are roofs traditionally constructed from? 
Alpine rocks
What's one of the most popular tourist destinations in the world? 
the Alps
When did the tourism industry begin? 
the early 19th century
Where were the Winter Olympics held in 1924?
Chamonix, France
When were ski-lifts built in Swiss and Austrian towns?
post-World War I
How much area is devoted to roads in the Alpine region?
4,200 km (2,600 mi)
Where is the village of Avoriaz located? 
France
When are many passes in the Alps closed? 
winter
What is a gene?
a locus (or region) of DNA that encodes a functional RNA or protein product
What do mutations in a gene sequence lead to?
different variants, known as alleles
What can regulatory regions of a gene be far removed from?
its coding regions
Who first suggested the existence of discrete inheritable units?
Gregor Mendel (1822–1884)
What was the dominant theory of heredity prior to Mendel's work?
one of blending inheritance
What ancient Greek word is the word 'gene' derived from?
γένος (génos)
What was shown to be the molecular repository of genetic information by experiments in the 1940s to 1950s?
Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)
When was the first sequence of a gene determined?
In 1972
In what time span were the theories to integrate molecular genetic with Darwinian evolution developed?
the 1930s and 1940s
What do the vast majority of living organisms encode their genes in?
long strands of DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid)
What is the backbone of a DNA double helix made of?
phosphate-sugar
What causes the directionality of DNA strands?
the chemical composition of the pentose residues of the bases
How does the expression of genes encoded in DNA begin?
by transcribing the gene into RNA
What is the total complement of genes in an organism or cell known as?
its genome
Where are the majority of eukaryotic genes stored?
on a set of large, linear chromosomes
What are prokaryotes?
bacteria and archaea
What type of organism has relatively gene dense chromosomes?
prokaryotes
Often, how large a part of the structure of a gene is the protein coding sequence?
often only a small part
What do all genes contain that is required for their expression?
a regulatory sequence
How do regulatory regions act?
by binding to transcription factors
What is at both ends of the transcribed pre-mRNA?
untranslated regions
What are most prokaryotic genes organized into?
operons
What is an example of a regulatory region of a gene that does not have to close to the coding sequence?
enhancers
What model did early work in molecular genetics suggest?
the model that one gene makes one protein.
What sort of definition can be used to conveniently encompass the complexity of diverse phenomena?
A broad operational definition
How many steps are required to read the information encoded in a gene's DNA and produce the specified protein?
two steps are required
What specifies the amino acid sequence of a protein?
The nucleotide sequence of a gene's DNA
What does transcription produce?
a single-stranded RNA molecule known as messenger RNA
Where does transcription occur in prokaryotes?
in the cytoplasm
What is the process by which a mature mRNA molecule is used as a template for synthesizing a new protein called?
Translation
When are genes expressed?
only when the product is needed
What is first copied into RNA as an intermediate in the manufacture of the final protein product?
A typical protein-coding gene
In what form do some viruses store their entire genome?
in the form of RNA
Where do organisms inherit their genes from?
from their parents
According to Mendelian inheritance, what is part of the cause of variations in an organism's phenotype?
variations in its genotype
Where can alleles be located in order to be either dominant or recessive?
at a locus
What does the growth, development, and reproduction of organisms rely on?
cell division
What is one thing the cell must do once DNA replication is compete?
physically separate the two copies of the genome
The duplication and transmission of genetic material from one generation of cells to the next is the basis for what?
molecular inheritance
When can an event called genetic recombination or crossing-over sometimes occur?
During the process of meiotic cell division
What is it called when errors occur in DNA replication?
mutations
What is it called when multiple different alleles for a gene are present in a species's population?
polymorphic
What are mutations that have no effect on an organism's phenotype called?
silent mutations
What are genes with a most recent common ancestor called?
homologs
What does comparing the sequence alignment of genes' DNA measure?
The relationship between genes
What is the most common source of new genes in eukaryotic lineages?
gene duplication
What is a gene whose sequence shows no similarity to existing genes called?
De novo or "orphan" genes
What is the  transfer of genetic material through a mechanism other than reproduction known as?
Horizontal gene transfer
What is one characteristic that varies widely between organisms?
genome size
Since when has the number of base pairs of DNA in the human genome been known?
the 1960s
What are the set of genes which are thought to be crucial for the survival of an organism?
Essential genes
What type of genes are necessary for performing basic cell functions?
Housekeeping genes
What committee has established gene nomenclature for every known human gene?
HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee (HGNC)
What is known as the modification of an organism's genome through biotechnology?
Genetic engineering
What has become a common research tool with model organisms?
Genetic engineering
For what sort of organisms is the embryo normally engineered?
multicellular organisms
What is the official name for Guinea-Bissau?
the Republic of Guinea-Bissau
What kingdom was Guinea-Bissau once part of?
Gabu
What percentage of the population speaks Portuguese?
14%
What Islamic organization does Guinea-Bissau belong to?
Organisation of Islamic Cooperation
What area was known as the Slave Coast?
Portuguese Guinea
When was Alvise Cadamosto's voyage?
1455
What areas were the first places colonized by the Portuguese?
the rivers and coast
Who tried to establish a rival foothold at Bolama?
the British
What group started an armed rebellion in Guinea-Bissau?
African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde (PAIGC)
When was independence declared?
24 September 1973
Who was the first President of Guinea-Bissau?
Luís Cabral
Who controlled the country prior to 1984?
a revolutionary council
When was a military coup conducted?
September 2003
After the coup, when were presidential elections held?
June 2005
What was reported to be entering the country prior to the election?
arms
When was the parliamentary election held?
November 2008
Who was assassinated on 2 March 2009?
Vieira
When was a coup d'etat staged?
12 April 2012
What country is listed as a republic?
Guinea-Bissau
How many members compose the legislature?
100
Who was elected as President in 2005?
João Bernardo "Nino" Vieira
What was NOT triggered by Vieira's death?
widespread violence
When did President Sanha die?
2012
How many regions does Guinea-Bissau contain?
eight
What country is on the north border of Guinea-Bissau?
Senegal
Guinea-Bissau is larger than what two countries?
Taiwan or Belgium
What is the average rainfall in Bissau, in millimetres?
2,024
How much of the population lives below the poverty line?
More than two-thirds
Political instability has resulted in what type of economic activity?
depressed
What did the main political parties sign to help the economy?
a pact of stability
In what year did Guinea-Bissau start to bring some internal monetary stability to the country?
1997
When did drug traffickers begin to use Guinea-Bissau?
2005
What was the population of Guinea-Bissau in 1950?
518,000
What natives comprise a very small percentage of the population?
Portuguese
What percentage of the population speaks Kriol?
44%
What is the second language for most Portuguese in Guinea-Bissau?
Kriol
In the 20th century most people practiced some form of what faith?
Animism.
What percentage of the population is Christian?
Approximately 10%
What infection has a very small prevalence in Guinea-Bissau?
HIV
What kills more residents than AIDS?
Malaria
What type of disease was reported to be on the rise in Guinea-Bissau?
cholera
What was the 2010 maternal mortality rate per 100,000 births?
1000
What are the ages when education is compulsory?
7 to 13
What type of secondary schools does Guinea-Bissau have?
general as well as technical
What music genre is usually associated with Guinea-Bissau?
gumbe
What is the primary instrument of Guinea-Bissau?
The calabash
What is sometimes used as a generic word for any music of Guinea-Bissau?
gumbe
What grain is a staple for residents near the coast of Guinea-Bissau?
Rice
What are common dishes in Guinea-Bissau?
soups and stews
Who is an internationally renowned film director from Guinea-Bissau?
Flora Gomes
What is the grid plan aligned with rather than the cardinal directions?
Hudson River
Which streets are one-way eastbound?
even-numbered
What happens at Broadway below 8th Street?
Streets' names change
The grid covers the length of the island from what starting point?
14th Street north
What is the highest numbered street on Manhattan Island?
220th Street
What is the spot where the grid takes hold called?
Peretz Square
East 6th Street continues further Eastward and connects to which Drive?
FDR
What name did 3rd Street previously hold?
Amity Place
Which Apartments interrupt East 5th Street between First Avenue and Avenue A?
Village View
West 8th Street is an important local street for what activity?
shopping
Which bus operates on 10th Street between Avenues D and A and between West Street and Sixth Ave?
M8
Which street runs from Broadway to West Street?
West 11th Street
13th Street is divided into how many parts?
three
Where does 14th Street begin?
Avenue C
Where does 15th Street start?
FDR Drive
What is unusual about the traffic between Broadway and Park Avenue South on 17th Street?
runs in both directions
What is at the crossing of 18th Street and Seventh Avenue?
subway station
Where does 10th Street start?
Avenue C
Which Street is also known as Police Officer Anthony Sanchez Way?
21st Street
Where does 23rd Street begin?
FDR Drive
Which street is a pedestrian plaza between Third Avenue and Lexington Avenue?
25th Street
Which street does Club Row occur on?
27th Street
How many blocks south of 27th Street is Manhattan's Meatpacking District?
fifteen blocks
The Fashion Institute of Technology is on the corner of 27th Street and what Avenue?
Eighth
Where does 31st Street begin?
West Side Yard
Where does 35th Street begin?
FDR Drive
What is the section of East 58th Street between Lexington and Second Avenues known as?
Designers' Way
Which street begins at East Drive, at Engineers Gate of Central Park?
East 90th Street
Where does 112th Street start?
Morningside Heights
Which library is Columbia University's largest?
Butler Library
On which street is a private indoor pedestrian bridge between Amsterdam Avenue and Morningside Drive?
114th Street
On which road does 120th Street begin?
Riverside Drive
Which memorial park divides 122nd Street?
Marcus Garvey
How many blocks west of Second Avenue does E 122nd Street run?
four
At which intersection does W 122nd Street terminate?
Morningside Avenue
What is another name for Tenth Avenue?
Amsterdam Avenue
Besides the Union Theological Seminary, which other Seminary touches Seminary Row?
Jewish Theological
Who is the main character in Taxi Driver?
Travis Bickle
Which street in West Harlem runs just two blocks between Amersterdam Avenue and Claremont Avenue?
La Salle Street
There is a small stretch of what road between Broadway and Twelfth Avenue?
West 132nd Street
Who takes care of the 132nd Street Community Garden?
local residents
What is the 132nd Street Bus Depot currently known as?
Manhattanville Bus Depot
How many crosstown streets are mapped in the Commissioner's Plan of 1811?
155
Where does 155th Street start?
Riverside Drive
181st Street runs through what neighborhood?
Washington Heights
In which direction is 181st Street largely residential?
West
How many subway lines serve 181st Street?
two
187th Street runs from Laurel Hill Terrace in the east to which avenue in the west?
Chittenden Avenue
Which is the eastmost intersection that 187th Street has?
Laurel Hill Terrace
Which school is located on Cabrini Boulevard?
P.S. 187
What is the center of the nervous system in all creatures?
The brain
Hormones secreted are driven by what organ in the body?
The brain
Which part of a computer does the brain most resemble?
central processing unit (CPU)
Animals with a spine are called what?
vertebrates
Animals without a spine are called what?
invertebrates
The easiest way to learn about brain anatomy is by what?
visual inspection
Brains of organisms are made up mostly of what two classes of cells?
neurons and glial cells
Axons send signals to other neurons by junctions known as what?
synapses
How many synapses does the human brain supposedly contain?
100 trillion synapses;
Axons grouped together are known as what?
nerve fiber tracts
Creatures that have a diffuse nerve net are called what?
cnidarians
A name for a group of primitive flatworms is what?
acoelomorphs
Which two groups of invertebrates have complex brains?
arthropods (insects, crustaceans, arachnids, and others), and cephalopods
Which brains are easier to work on, vertebrates or invertebrates?
invertebrate
How long ago did the first vertebrate organisms appear?
over 500 million years ago
Do predators have larger or smaller brains compared to their prey?
larger
The forebrain during development is known as what?
prosencephalon
Brain tissue that is living is what color on the outside?
pinkish
People who study the anatomy of the central nervous system are known as what?
Neuroanatomists
The forebrain is everted in what type of fishes?
teleost fishes
A mammal's brain is how many times larger than a birds relative to body size?
twice as large
What part of the brain most strongly differentiates mammals from other vertebrates?
The cerebral cortex
The superior colliculus is related to what sensual control of vertebrates?
visual
Comparing brain sizes among different creatures is used most commonly by what?
encephalization quotient (EQ)
Primates have a visual processing network of how many brain areas?
30
The precursor of the nervous system is called what in vertebrates?
the neural plate
A growth cone of an axon is made up of a blob of what?
protoplasm
The infant brain contains more of what type of cells in the brain than the adult brain?
neurons
The electrical properties of neurons are controlled by what?
neurotransmitters and receptors that take place at synapses
Chemicals called neurotransmitters are released at what part of the brain?
synapses
GABA is the abbreviation for what?
gamma-aminobutyric acid
Serotonin comes from what part of the brain?
Raphe nuclei
An EEG of the brain stands for what?
electroencephalography
What type of cells have a huge role in brain metabolism?
Glial cells
Where does the brain usually get most of its energy from inside the body?
glucose (i.e., blood sugar
The function of the brain from an evolutionary-biological thought is what?
provide coherent control over the actions of an animal
Computers were invented in what decade in history?
1940s
The scientific paper, What the frog's eye tells the frog's brain was released in what year?
1959
What is the project called that is trying to build a realistic, detailed computer model of the human brain?
the Human Brain Project
What type of animal has a sense that adapted into sonar?
bats
Light-receptive neurons are located in what part of the eye?
retina
What part of the body is controlled by nuclei in the midbrain?
the eye,
Which motor areas of the brain control breathing and swallowing?
the medulla and pons,
The brain and spinal cord work together to control what system of the body?
autonomic nervous system
The SCN of the nervous system is an abbreviation for what?
suprachiasmatic nucleus
A group of neuron-clusters scattered in the core of the lower brain is called what?
the reticular formation
There are two types of sleep called what?
REM sleep (with dreaming) and NREM
Homeostasis is defined as what?
The ability of an animal to regulate the internal environment of its body
The hypothalamus is located at the base of what?
the forebrain
A set of interconnected areas at the base of the forebrain is called what?
basal ganglia
In what year did Tim Bliss and Terje Lomo publish a paper about long-term potentiation?
1971
What field of science studies the brain and the central nervous system?
neuroscience
The oldest known method of studying the brain is what?
anatomical,
What do neurophysiologists study?
the chemical, pharmacological, and electrical properties of the brain
The brain is surrounded by what type of fluid?
cerebrospinal fluid
Computational neuroscience is concerned with what two studies?
the use of computers to study the brain; second, the study of how brains perform computation.
What is the most common test subjects for studying of the brain?
mice
Where was the oldest brain that was found?
Armenia
The seal of the soul was debated to lie in what two organs of the body?
brain or heart.
The physician Galen was from which country in history?
Roman
Who found out that a shock of electricity to an exposed nerve of a dead frog caused contractions?
Luigi Galvani
Work in the first half the 20th century in electrical properties of nerve cells were by what two main scientists?
Alan Hodgkin, Andrew Huxley
Which decade in history was officially called the "Decade of the Brain"?
the 1990s
Multielectrode recording allows what?
the activity of many brain cells to be recorded all at the same time;
What is a geographical term that roughly encompasses Western Asia?
Near East (French: Proche-Orient)
Who defines the Near East as including Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Cyprus, Egypt. Georgia, Iran, Iraq, Isreal, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the West Bank, and Yemen?
The Encyclopædia Britannica
What empire included all of the Balkan Peninsula north to the southern edge of the Hungarian Plain at the beginning of the 19th century?
the Ottoman Empire
How was the Ottoman Empire portrayed in the press?
as the sick man of Europe
When did "Near East" come into use to describe the part of the east closest to Europe?
middle of the 19th century
What was one region included that was occupied by piratical kingdoms?
North Africa west of Egypt
The terms "Near East" and "Far East" referring to areas of the globe in or contiguous to the former British Empire and the neighboring colonies fit together as a pair based on what? 
the opposites of far and near
Who used the terms near Gaul?
The Romans
What divided Asia on a similar basis? 
Ptolemy's Geography
When was John Seller's Atlas Maritima?
1670
Where was Elizabeth I from?
England
What has pleased western historians?
to write of a decline of the Ottoman Empire
The populations did not accept what?
Turkish rule
When did the Russian Empire begin to question the existence of the Ottoman Empire?
1853
Until what year did the words near east and far east not refer to any particular region? 
1855
When was a reprint of a letter sent to The Times appear in Littel's Living Age?
1855
What was one of the earliest presentations of this vocabulary?
the letter to the Times
What remained popular in diplomatic, trade and journalistic circles?
"Near East"
When was the London Review?
1861
What region was explicitly excluded?
India
What does Hogarth say in detail?
where and why
When did the term "Near East" acquire considerable disrepute?
the 19th century
Reports from who made the change evident?
influential British travellers
Where did the Normans go off to instead of publishing the book?
New York
What does Norman mean in the article when saying "Near East"?
the countries where "the eastern question" applied
What was William Miller's life span?
1864–1945
Miller's words were considered what?
fighting words
The Ottoman Empire had no choice but to develop their relationship with what country?
Austro-Hungarian Empire
What year was Arnold J toynbee becoming metaphysical about the Near East?
1916
What was able to rise from the death of the Near East?
new nations
When was the term middle east common as a noun and adjective?
the 19th century
Where did the use of the term Middle East as a region of international affairs begin?
in British and American diplomatic circles
What threat caused Gordon to publish his article?
resumption of work on a railway
Who was a member of American diplomatic and military circles?
Alfred Thayer Mahan
Who did not connect with the soldier?
the sailor
The Near East and the Middle East coexisted until what period?
the period following World War I
What is the basis of Simpson's unity?
color and colonial subjection
These regions were occupied by who?
the brown men
The Ottomans were portrayed as what?
the slavers
When did the term "Near and Middle East" hold stage?
a few years before World War I
What prevailed with the disgrace of "Near East"?
"Middle East"
What sentiment persists even though racial and colonial definitions of the Middle East are no longer ideologically sound?
sentiment of unity
When were terms such as "Near East", "Far East", and "Middle East" relegated to the experts?
the 20th century
What is the chief remaining nation to assign official responsibilities to a region called the Near East?
The United States
The Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs is a division of what?
the United States Department of State
Who works closely with the definition of the Near East?
the Near East South Asia Center for Strategic Studies (NESA)
What is WINEP?
The Washington Institute for Near East Policy
What does LoC stand for?
The Library of Congress
Who formulates multiple regional divisions as is convenient for its various operations?
The United Nations
What is a quasi-independent agency of the United States Government?
The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)
The Near East of the NESA is the same as the Middle East define in what?
The World Factbook
What does USAID stand for?
U.S. Agency for International Development
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office of United Kingdom recognizes what?
a Middle East and North Africa region
What does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Greece conduct?
"bilateral relationships"
What is a term of the 20th centrury intended to stabilize the geographical application of Near East to ancient history?
The Ancient Near East
James Bennett Pritchard wrote what?
Texts relating to the Old Testament
What do most universities teaching liberal arts have? 
library and museum collections
What does CSAD stand for?
Centre for the Study of Ancient Documents
Where did a large percentage of experts on the modern Middle East began their training?
university departments named for the Near East
What was Zhejiang formerly romanized as?
Chekiang
What is the former name of the Qiantang River?
Zhe River
What kind of cultures were the Hemudu and Liangzhu?
Neolithic
Who populated the areas of Zhejiang in the 2nd millennium BC?
Hundred Yue
What was the initial power base for Xiang Liang and Xiang Yu's rebellion?
Kuaiji Commandery
When was the beginning of the Three Kingdoms era?
220–280 CE
When was Zhejiang part of the Wu?
during the Three Kingdoms
What was Nanjing formerly known as?
Jiankang
When was the Jin Dynasty?
265–420
When did the Six Dynasties end?
589
When did the Song dynasty reestablish unity around?
960
What were greenware ceramics made from?
celadon
What do 'to-min' mean?
idle people
During which war did the British navy defeat Eight Banners forces at Ningbo and Dinghai?
the First Opium War
What war did the Second Sino-Japanese War lead into?
World War II
When did the People's Republic of China take control of Mainland China?
1949
What type of resources does Zhejiang have a lack of?
natural
What does Zhejiang consist mostly of?
hills
What does the north of the province lie just south of?
the Yangtze Delta
How many islands are along the rugged coastline of Zhejiang?
over three thousand
How many prefecture-level divisions of Zhejiang are there?
eleven
How are the politics of Zhejiang structured?
a dual party-government system
When was Tan Zhenlin's term as Zhenjiang's Communist Party Secretary?
1949-1952
What is the province traditionally known as?
Land of Fish and Rice
What is an important commercial port along with Ningbo, Wenzhou and Taizhou?
Zhoushan
What is Zhejiang's own development model dubbed?
Zhejiang model
What day of the week was September 15, 2011?
Thursday
What kind of Chinese make up the vast majority of the population?
Han
What is another predominant religion of Zhejiang besides Chinese folk religions and Taoist traditions?
Chinese Buddhism
What year did the government of Zhejiang recognise folk religion as 'civil religion'?
2015
How many years ago did Catholicism arrive in the province?
400
When did the rapid development of religions in Zhejiang drive the local committee of ethnic and religious affairs to enact measures to rationalise them?
2014
How long ago did Islam arrive in Zhejiang?
1,400 years
How diverse is Zhejiang, linguistically speaking?
extremely
When was the People's Republic of China founded?
1949
What is one of the most prominent forms of Chinese opera?
Yueju
What is Longjing tea also called?
dragon well tea
What neighbours north Zhejiang to the south?
Jiangsu
Which government's Ministry of Defence is mentioned here?
British
What does the MoD wish to strengthen?
international peace and stability
What three services make up the armed forces of the UK?
the British Army, the Royal Navy, and the Royal Air Force
Who created the office of Minister of Defence?
Winston Churchill
During what years did the five Departments of State do the work of the modern Ministry of Defence?
1946 to 1964
Who is supported by civilian, scientific, and professional military advisors?
The Ministers and Chiefs of the Defence Staff
What is the name of the person who is the current Chief of the Defence Staff?
General Sir Nicholas Houghton
How many Deputy Chiefs of the Defence Staff are there?
three
One of the Assistant Chiefs of the Defence Staff is for Reserves and what?
Cadets
In what year was there a Strategic Defence Review?
1998
In what concept is the MoD considered a leader?
defence diplomacy
How much was the investment in new equipment and capabilities worth?
£178 billion
What was the new threat that arose after the end of the Cold War?
terrorism
Military spending that is based on conventional threats has been dismissed as what?
Cold War mentality
Who was the Chief of Defence Materiel in 2009?
General Sir Kevin O’Donoghue
How much land is owned by the MoD?
227,300 hectares
What percentage of the defence estate makes up training areas and ranges?
84.0%
In what city are the headquarters of the MoD?
Whitehall
Who had a wine cellar at the Palace of Whitehall?
Henry VIII
Who in the MoD was convicted of fraud?
Gordon Foxley
What publication released a report about the Ministry of Defence in 2002?
the Guardian
How much did the MoD spend on Chinook helicopters?
£240m
Which aircraft manufacturer got a contract with the MoD?
Boeing
When was the TA budget withdrawn?
October 2009
By how much did the MoD go over its equipment budget?
£6.5bn
The term "high definition" originally described televisions systems from what year?
1936
Who started trials in August 1936?
The British high-definition TV service
What year did color broadcasts start in the US?
1953,
What is the Japan Broadcasting Corporation called?
Nippon Hōsō Kyōkai
How many major HDTV systems were tested by SMPTE in the late 70's?
four
What does DVB stand for?
digital video broadcasting
In what year did France start transmissions using and 819 line system?
1949
In the end what was the Soviet Union's Transformator system used for?
a research project
In what year did NHK first develop consumer HD television with a 5:3 aspect ratio?
1979
When was the MUSE system demonstrated in the US first?
1981
Why did the FCC reject systems such as MUSE?
their higher bandwidth requirements
What constraints kept HDTV from being widely adopted in the 90's?
technical and economic
How much more bandwith was required from early HDTV commercial experiments than an SD broadcast?
over four times
How many broadcasters did Japan have sharing a single channel?
seven
What does ITU-R stand for?
International Telecommunication Union's radio telecommunications sector
What did the Grand Alliance propose as the new standard for SDTV and HDTV?
ATSC
When did ITU-R start trying to work towards setting a single international HDTV standard?
1983
What aspect ratio was agreed upon due to the influence of widescreen cinema?
16:9
What scan format is also included in MBAFF?
1440×1152 HDMAC
When was HDTV introduced in the US?
late 1980s
When did the first HDTV transmissions happen in Europe?
1990
When did regular broadcasts start in Europe?
January 1, 2004
Euro1080 was a division of what former company?
Alfacam
What format did the first European HDTV broadcast use?
1080i format
According to the 2010 Satellite Monitor market survey, how many HD capable TV's were sold in Europe?
185 million
Which European country first deployed HD content using the new DVB-T2 standard?
the United Kingdom
How many HD channels did the Freeview HD service contain as of December 2013?
10
What are the three HDTV parameters?
[frame size][scanning system][frame or field rate]
What size is each 1920x1080p25 frame?
1,920 pixels wide and 1,080 pixels high
What three scanning rates do 50 Hz systems support?
50i, 25p and 50p
What is usually dropped for the commercial naming of an HDTV product?
the frame rate
Is there a single standard for HDTV color support?
no
At least how many times more linear resolution does HDTV have over SDTV?
twice
If more bandwith is required than is available, a very high resolution source my not be able to transmitted without loss of what?
fidelity
A broadcasts optimum format depends on what two things?
the type of videographic recording medium used and the image's characteristics
PAL, SECAM, and NTSC frame rates apply to what definition televisions?
analogue standard
At what rate is standard 35mm photographic film exposed and projected?
24 frames per second
What two formats are typically used to recorde non-cinematic HDTV video intended for broadcast?
720p or 1080i
In the US, what kind of tuner is needed for residents to receive free, over the air programming?
ATSC
HD content can be displayed by cable-ready TVs without using what?
an external box
Roku and AppleTV are examples of what?
IPTV
Why does the PlayStation 3 have extensive HD compatibility?
because of its built in Blu-ray disc based player
Sky HD's set-top box, TiVo's Series 3, and Dish Network's VIP 622 are examples of what?
an HDTV-capable digital video recorder
When was the Hauppauge 1212 Personal Video Recorder introduced?
2008
W-VHS recorders are capable of recording what kinds of signals?
analog HD
Prior to 2004, what were US cable companies required to provide customers who rent HD set-top boxes?
a set-top box with "functional" FireWire (IEEE 1394) on request
In addition to being used to build things, what has wood been used for over thousands of years?
fuel
How many cubic meters of growing stock forest are there on the planet?
434 billion
What year were the earliest plants that grew wood discovered?
2011
What has been the primary purpose of wood for millennia other than fuel?
construction material
Where does wood come from?
trees
If a growth ring has differences over one season, would the part nearest the tree's center be narrower or wider?
wider
What is the sort of circular imperfection in a piece of wood called?
knot
Other than the base of a side branch, what tree feature causes a knot?
a dormant bud
What will the lower limbs of a tree usually do during development?
die
What's the process in which knots are classified called?
grading
What is wood's breaking strength susceptible to? 
defects
What positive visual component can knots sometimes add to decorative pieces?
interest
What's another word for "duramen"?
Heartwood
In what part of a tree's cross-section is heartwood visible?
growth rings
What term is interchangeable with "sapwood"?
alburnum
If a tree starts forming heartwood right away, will its sapwood layer be thin or thick?
thin
What part of a tree is the cross-sectional area of the sapwood approximately proportional to?
crown
What usually covers the whole trunk of a very young tree?
limbs
What do broken limbs and deep wounds open a door for in a tree?
decay
In what stage of its life does a tree usually grow the fastest?
youth
When a big tree is cut up, will the pieces of wood differ or all be the same?
differ
When trees have a visible difference in color between sapwood and heartwood, which is darker?
heartwood
What type of tree has resin that makes it stronger when it dries?
Longleaf Pine
Which of the wood in a growth ring is usually darker?
latewood
What condition does an abnormal color usually indicate in wood?
diseased
What does wood retain in its cell walls despite being air-dried?
water
Often the water in wood makes it more pliable and what else?
softer
What will drying often increase in wood?
strength
What type of "ultimate" strength is one of the two types increased the most by drying wood?
crushing
Along with hygroscopic, cellular, and anisotropic, how is the material of wood described?
heterogeneous
What type of cells makes up most wood cells in coniferous trees?
tracheids
Is the structure of hardwood simple or complex?
complex
What species of hardwood are hickory and mulberry trees?
ring-porous
What kind of woods have pores that are uniformly sized?
diffuse-porous
What kind of softwoods often have significant differences in their earlywood and latewood?
temperate
Comparing a heavy and a lightweight piece of wood from a pine, which would have a greater proportion of latewood?
heavy
Having a high proportion of latewood isn't all that matters; what else is important?
quality
What facet of wood is affected to some degree by the place where the tree grows?
character
What kind of woods always have very clearly marked seasonal growth?
ring-porous
Ring-porous hardwoods have a clear relationship between their properties and what other factor?
rate of growth
Which specific type of wood within ring-porous woods have more fibers to make it strong?
latewood
What term is sometimes used for wood with wide rings?
second-growth
What kind of wood often has ring divisions that can't even be seen by looking at it?
diffuse-porous
What kind of wood has all similarly sized vessels?
diffuse-porous
What's another term used for "conifer" wood?
dicot
Which property of wood reveals the most about its quality?
specific gravity
Along with growth, what kind of factors determine the density of wood?
physiological
What should be anticipated because of the many factors that influence wood's density?
Variation
What term do we use for the wood that comes from pine trees?
softwood
What kind of relationship exists between a tree's properties and its wood's properties?
strong
What approximate percentage of carbon does wood have?
50%
How many main components make up wood, not counting water?
three
What component of wood determines whether it is hardwood or softwood?
lignin
What's the name for the low molecular weight organic compounds in wood?
extractives
What type of wood is preferred as fuel?
Hardwood
What wood is decay-resistant when wet?
Elm
What term is used in North America for wood used in construction?
lumber
What type of construction is often used now to build homes in much of the world?
timber-framed
What might wood be used for in a building made from brick or other materials?
supporting material
What holds together an engineered wood product?
glue
What category do composite panels, strand board, and plywood all fit into?
wood structural panels
What material results from chemically breaking down wood?
cellulose
What category of products usually made from wood includes chairs?
furniture
What could we monitor electronically that could help inform new methods of wood protection?
Moisture content
Along with sculptures, what type of art have people been making out of wood for centuries?
carvings
What kind of wood are clarinet bodies made from?
african blackwood
What type of instruments with a misleading name aren't always made completely out of wood?
woodwind instruments
What wood is usually used for cricket bats?
white willow
What pieces of equipment for shooting arrows used to be wooden?
archery bows
What component of wood is degraded by bacteria that scientists are still trying to learn about?
cellulose
What language family is Somali a part of?
Afro-Asiatic
From whom are several Somali clans descended?
Irir Samaale
What did the Arabs call the northern Somali coast in the 9th century?
Berbera
How long ago were rock paintings found in Somalia created?
5000 years
Along with the Hargesian culture, what culture was present in Somalia in the Stone age?
the Doian culture
In what country is the oldest evidence of ceremonial burial in the Horn of Africa located?
Somalia
What economic activity in the Horn of Africa did the ancient Somalis connect to the rest of the world?
commerce
What ancient land was connected to the modern Somali people?
Land of Punt
Near what headland was Mosylon located?
Cape Guardafui
What body of water separated Somalia from the land where Islam was born?
Red Sea
What dynasty ruled the Sultanate of Ifat?
the Walashma dynasty
What Somali polity of the Middle Ages was known for its fortresses?
the Ajuran Sultanate
What states supported the Dervish State?
the Ottoman and German empires
Along with British Somaliland, what country in the region was a British protectorate after the Second World War?
Italian Somaliland
Along with the Haud, what area of Somalia was given to Ethiopia by the British?
the Ogaden
What was Djibouti called in 1958?
French Somaliland
On what date did British Somaliland gain independence?
26 June 1960
On what date was Abdirashid Ali Shermarke assassinated?
15 October 1969
Along with Jama Korshel, who led the Supreme Revolutionary Council?
Salaad Gabeyre Kediye
What did the new government nationalize along with land?
industry
Along with Kenya, Djibouti and Somalia, in what Horn of Africa country do Somali people live?
Ethiopia
In what year did Sanchez publish his study on Somali ethnicity?
2005
When did Richards publish his mtDNA research?
2006
When did Hodgson publish his DNA study?
2014
In what year did Mahamoud publish his research?
2006
In what geographic part of Somalia is Zeila located?
northern
What is another name for a Qur'anic school?
dugsi
Along with Minneapolis, London and Birmingham, what city contains a notable population of Somalis?
Toronto
Along with the Horn of Africa, what is a notable location where Somali Islamic figures have been influential?
the Arabian Peninsula
What is a basic social unit of Somali society?
clan
What practice is often used to bind different clans together?
marriage
What law gave Somali husbands and wives equal rights over personal property?
1975 Somali Family Law
What is the biggest ethnic group in Somalia?
Somalis
What led to an increase in the number of Somalis leaving the country?
Civil strife
About how many Somalis live in the UK?
108,000
What country is Cedar Rapids located in?
the United States
Along with Saint Paul, what city constitutes the Twin Cities?
Minneapolis
In what Middle Eastern country is there a notable Somali population?
the United Arab Emirates
Near what city in Sudan do many Somalis reside?
Khartoum
What language family does the Somali language belong to?
Afro-Asiatic
About how many people in Somalia speak Somali?
7.78 million
Along with Northern and Maay, what is the third main group of Somali dialects?
Benaadir
What is the most frequently used writing script for the Somali language?
the Somali alphabet
Other than Somali, what is an official language of Somalia?
Arabic
Civilizations from what geographic part of Africa influenced Somali culture?
Northeast
Somali food contains influences from what region?
Southeast Asian
What is a notable game that is played in Somalia?
Shax
What scale is used by most Somali songs?
pentatonic
In what decade were the first Somali feature films made?
1960s
What is a notable characteristic of Somali art?
aniconism
What do Somali women wear on their feet during Eid?
henna
What sport do Somalis most enjoy?
Football
When did the 1981 FIBA African Championship take place?
15–23 December 1981
Who came in fourth in the 2013 Open World Taekwondo Challenge Cup?
Mohamed Deq Abdulle
What is a koofiyad?
an embroidered fez
What is the jellabiya?
a long white garment
What is the regular garment of Somali women?
the guntiino
What is the name of the headscarf worn by married women?
shaash
What is the jewelry worn by Somali women commonly made from?
gold
In what year was the Somali flag invented?
1954
What is the one culinary tradition that is present among all Somali regional cuisines?
all food is served halal
What is the English word for qado?
lunch
What is another term for xalwo?
halva
When did Somalis begin to render their language using the Latin alphabet?
1972
What is the Somali system of customary law?
Xeer
In what century did the Xeer system begin?
7th
In the Xeer system, what are judges called?
odayal
Along with Somalo-Islamic architecture, what influences modern Somali architecture?
Western designs
What do Somalis call their ancient pyramids?
taalo
During what period was the Muslim faith introduced to Somalia?
early medieval
What is the academic study of the Somali people called?
Somali Studies
In what century did the Middle Ages begin?
5th
Along with the movement of peoples, invasion and depopulation, what event started in Late Antiquity and continued into the Middle Ages?
deurbanisation
What year marked the beginning of the High Middle Ages?
1000
When did the Black Death end?
1350
Along with Antiquity and the Middle Ages, what is the other major division of European history?
the Modern Period
Along with the Six Ages, what other scheme did writers in the Middle Ages use to divide history?
Four Empires
What date is usually given as the beginning of the Middle Ages?
476
In what century did the Roman Empire achieve its greatest extent?
the 2nd century AD
In what year did Diocletian begin his reign?
284
In what year did the Ostrogoths settle in the Roman Empire?
376
Who was the last Western Roman Emperor?
Romulus Augustus
When did Aspar die?
Aspar
In what century did the Ostrogoths arrive in Italy?
5th
People of what ethnicity settled in the Balkan Peninsula?
Slavic
In what century did the economic revival in the Eastern Roman Empire end?
7th
Who defeated the Eastern Roman Empire near Adrianople in 551?
Slavic tribes
What author would Jerome rather read than the Bible?
Cicero
What was the focus of aristocratic culture during this period?
great feasts
How many people might live in a large peasant settlement?
700
About how many people lived in Rome at the end of the 500s?
30,000
What was the ethnicity of a leader who converted to Judaism in this era?
Arab
In what year did the Battle of Poitiers take place?
732
Along with Naples, what city still traded African goods in the 7th century?
Rome
During what century did gold coinage cease?
7th
What language was used by the eastern church?
Greek
When did Gregory the Great become pope?
590
What religious lifestyle arose in the Early Middle Ages?
monasticism
Along with Austrasia and Neustria, what kingdom was originally part of the Frankish kingdom?
Burgundy
What dynasty consisted of descendants of Charles Martel?
Carolingian
On what date did Charlemagne assume the imperial title?
Christmas Day 800
Where was Charlemagne's court based?
Aachen
Who was Charlemagne's only living son in 813?
Louis the Pious
How many years did the civil war after the death of Louis the Pious last?
three
What group settled in Iceland during this period?
the Vikings
When did Alfred the Great begin his reign?
871
Along with Sweden and Norway, what country saw missionary activity in the 9th and 10th centuries?
Denmark
Of what dynasty was Leo VI a member?
Macedonian
When were the Constantinian basilicas built?
4th century
What was the primary military arm of Anglo-Saxon armies?
infantry
Along with carved ivories, what religious works of the Early Middle Ages were common?
illuminated manuscripts
The importance of what military arm increased during the Carolingian era?
heavy cavalry
What was the approximate population of Europe in 1347?
80 million
In what centuries did fiefs become hereditary?
11th and 12th
What group constituted the clergy along with the regular clergy?
the secular clergy
In what type of settlement did most Jews live?
cities
Along with gardening, animal husbandry and child-care, what work did medieval peasant women do?
taking care of the household
What sea were the Hanseatic cities located on?
Baltic
Along with Poland, what Central European kingdom was formed during the High Middle Ages?
Hungary
What dynasty controlled Germany in the early High Middle Ages?
Ottonian
Who was Duke of Normandy in 1066?
William the Conqueror
What was the name of the Christian reconquest of Iberia from the Muslims?
the Reconquista
During what decade did the Seljuk Turks occupy Armenia?
1060s
What pope launched the First crusade?
Urban II
What was the purpose of the Third Crusade?
to regain Jerusalem
Along with the Baltic and Spain, in what area were crusades called?
southern France
What group opposed the nominalists on the subject of universals?
realists
What does chansons de geste mean in English?
songs of great deeds
What is another name for canon law?
ecclesiastical law
What invention led to advances in mathematics?
algebra
Along with the astrolabe, windmill and distilled spirits, what was a notable technological advancement of the 12th and 13th centuries?
mechanical clocks
What fraction of land was under cultivation using the two-field system?
one half
Along with bridges, tithe barns and town halls, what notable new structures were built during this period?
houses
In what century did Europeans become aware of gunpowder?
13th
In what century was Romanesque architecture first used?
10th
Who was a noted figure in Mosan art?
Nicholas of Verdun
In what century did the Gothic style first flourish?
12th
Who noted that 14th century monks bought books in shops?
Janetta Benton
In what century was thought given to monastic reform?
11th
During what century did the Investiture Controversy occur?
11th
What monastic order did Bernard of Clairvaux belong to?
Cistercians
Along with the Dominicans, what mendicant order was founded in the 13th century?
Franciscans
In what years did the Great Famine occur?
1315–17
When did the Black Death start?
1347
By the end of this period, about what percentage of Western Europeans were serfs?
50
In what year were the Jews expelled from England?
1290
Along with Aragon and Castile, what Christian kingdom was present on the Iberian Peninsula?
Portugal
When did the Hundred Years' War begin?
1337
Along with Poland and Hungary, what Eastern European state grew in power?
Bohemia
Emperors from what dynasty recaptured Constantinople in 1261?
Palaeologi
During what years did the Avignon Papacy occur?
1305–78
Of what nationality was John Wycliffe?
English
In the Late Middle Ages, who was allowed to drink wine at Mass?
the clergy
What school of thought was Duns Scotus opposed to?
scholasticism
What was the main purpose of education in this period?
training of future clergy
Along with Dante and Boccaccio, who was a notable Italian author of the 14th century?
Petrarch
Explorers in the employ of what nation discovered the Azores?
Portugal
Along with light cavalry, what military arm was used with increasing frequency in the Late Middle Ages?
infantry
What was replaced by the spinning wheel?
the traditional distaff
Around what year did the International Gothic style flourish?
1400
Who carved the Pulpit in Sant'Andrea?
Giovanni Pisano
Along with the Renaissance, during what period were the Middle Ages disparaged?
Enlightenment
What is Edward Grant a historian of?
Science
During what century was it first proposed that people in the Middle Ages thought the Earth was flat?
19th
What is phonology a branch of?
linguistics
What part of a language can phonology as a word also refer to?
the phonological system
What branch of linguistics is phonology distinguished from?
phonetics
What language does phonology as a word come from?
Greek
What type of grammar was phonology first a part of?
Sanskrit
When was the phoneme as a concept introduced?
1876
What was Nikolai Trubetzkoy's publication?
Principles of Phonology
When was The Sound Pattern of English published?
1968
Whose publications started the theory of Natural phonology?
David Stampe
Who founded autosegmental phonology?
John Goldsmith
When was Government phonology first seen?
the early 1980s
When did Prince and Smolensky develop their theory?
1991
What followed government phonology?
strict-CV phonology
What is Evolutionary Phonology an integrated approach to?
phonological theory
What are the units called that traditional phonology studies?
phonemes
What type of language study involves trying to deduce underlying phonomes?
phonological
What kind of linguistics describes how factors of languages change in history?
historical
How do speech perception and articulation findings and insights affect previous and more traditional ideas?
complicate
What are assigned to phonemes by different linguists?
sounds
When did theoretical linguists turn away traditional phoneme concepts?
early 1960s
What do phonemes differentiate? 
meaning
Under what topic is suprasegmentals studied?
prosody
Instead of being language-specific what kind of tools are the principles of phonological analysis designed to be?
general analytical tools
In computer terms, what does CPU stand for?
central processing unit
What were analog computers originally used for?
astronomical calculations
Computers in today's age are based on what that make them much faster than earlier computers?
integrated circuits
When was the first known use of the word "computer"?
1613
The earliest device to help count was what?
a form of tally stick
What was the abacus first used for?
arithmetic tasks
What is thought to be the first mechanical analog computer?
The Antikythera mechanism
Who invented the planisphere?
Abū Rayhān al-Bīrūnī
The sector, a calculating instrument, was invented during what century?
16th century
When was the slide rule first invented?
1620–1630
What was the profession of Pierre Jaquet-Droz?
a Swiss watchmaker
When was the tide-predicting machine invented by Sir William Thomson invented?
1872
What type of mechanisms did the differential analyzer use?
wheel-and-disc
Who invented the concept of a programmable computer?
Charles Babbage
Who was Charles Babbage's son?
Henry Babbage
Who invented the first analog computer in the form of a tide-predicting machine?
Sir William Thomson
Where was the differential analyzer built by H.L. Hazen?
MIT
By what decade were analog computing devices rendered obsolete?
50s
Who wrote the paper "On Computable Numbers"?
Alan Turing
A Universal Machine is known as what today?
Universal Turing machine
What part of the US military developed an electromechanical analog computer to use on a submarine?
the United States Navy
Who created the relay computer, the Z2?
Konrad Zuse
When did Konrad Zuse create the Z3 computer?
1941
Where did the engineer Tommy Flowers work at during the 1930s?
Post Office Research Station
Who built the first Colossus in 1943?
Flowers
What was the first electronic digital programmable computer in the world?
Colossus
The US-buils ENIAC stands for what?
Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer)
How many times could it add or subtract a second?
5000
The basis for the stored-program computer was written by whom?
Alan Turing
What was the nickname of the Manchester Small-Scale Experimental Machine?
Baby
What was the prototype for the Ferranti Mark 1?
The Mark 1
When was the bipolar transistor created?
1947.
At the University of Manchester, who oversaw the building of a computer using transistors instead of valves?
Tom Kilburn
The integrated circuit of a computer was the idea of whom?
Geoffrey W.A. Dummer
Where created the first practical integrated circuits?
Jack Kilby at Texas Instruments and Robert Noyce at Fairchild Semiconductor.
What was the name of the first single-chip microprocessor?
Intel 4004
Computing resources that are created in cell phones are called what?
smartphones
Billions of instructions per second are called what in computer terms?
(gigaflops)
When a computer goes back and repeats instructions of a program over until an internal condition is met is called what?
the flow of control
Which computer is the Harvard architecture modeled after?
Harvard Mark I computer
A computer's assembly language is known as what?
basic instruction can be given a short name that is indicative of its function
Programming languages are translated into machine code by what?
a compiler or an assembler
An ARM architecture computer can be found in what?
a PDA or a hand-held videogame
Assembly language that is translated into machine language is done by what type of computer?
a compiler
An example of a 4GL is what?
SQL
Another name for errors in programs are called what?
"bugs
Who was the developer of the first compier?
Admiral Grace Hopper
The ALU of a computer stands for what?
arithmetic logic
A circuit in a computer part represents what?
a bit (binary digit) of information
What are other names for a control unit for a computer?
a control system or central controller)
A special memory cell of a CPU is called what?
a register
In what part can the program counter be changed by calculations?
the ALU
In some CPU designs there is tinier computer called what?
microsequencer
The CPU is an abbreviation for what?
central processing unit
Some trigonometry functions are what?
sine, cosine,
Boolean logic consists of what?
AND, OR, XOR, and NOT
Computers that have multiple ALUs are called what?
Superscalar
How many numbers can a cell of a computer's memory hold?
a single number
A group of 8 bits is called what?
a byte
What part of the computer has memory cells called registers?
The CPU
What type of memory can a CPU only read from?
ROM
RAM cache memory is slower than what?
registers
Devices that give input or output to a computer are called what?
peripherals
In computer terms, when a computer is switching rapidly between running each program in turn, is called what?
multitasking
A method of multitasking that takes a "slice" of time in turn is called what?
"time-sharing"
Multitasking would seemingly cause a computer to run in what fashion?
more slowly,
Multiprocessor and multi-core computers have multiples of what?
CPUs
How many CPUs do supercomputers typically possess?
thousands
What system of the U.S. military's was the first large-scale system to coordinate information between several locations?
SAGE system
Who funded the linking of computers around the US in the 1970s?
ARPA
The network spread to be known as what today?
the Internet.
The ability to store and execute lists of instructions are called what?
programs
All devices that can process information can qualify being called what?
a computer
Vacuum tubes in early computers were replaced by what?
transistors
What type of computer can break encryption algorithms quickly?
quantum computers
Computer programs that can learn are studied in what field?
artificial intelligence
Parts of a computer that are real objects are collectively known as what?
hardware
Parts of a computer that are not material objects are collectively known as what?
Software
A BIOS chip is located where in a computer?
the motherboard
Processing data from input and output devices is typically done by what?
CPU
Do some countries have negative feelings towards the word "black"?
communities and countries, "black" is also perceived as a derogatory,
Do all societies use the term "black" the same?
Different societies apply differing criteria regarding who is classified as "black"
What made up Mauretania?
Morocco, western Algeria, and the Spanish cities Ceuta and Melilla
Where was the Arab Slave Trade?
North Africa
When did Moroccan Sultan Moulay Ismail live?
(1672–1727)
Why would a black-looking Arab consider himself white?
because they have some distant white ancestry.
Who was the Egyptian President?
Anwar Sadat
Who was enslaved more often?
black women
Who was the ruler in Morocco?
Sultan Ahmad al-Mansur
When did the Arab apartheid intensify? 
early 1991
Who accused the Arab government of practicing acts of racism?
George Ayittey
Who was the Canadian Minister of Justice?
Irwin Cotler
What did the colonization of South Africa result in?
many unions and marriages between European men and African women from various tribes
What act determined what class a citizen belonged to?
the Population Registration Act of 1945
Who was featured in the movie "Skin"?
Sandra Laing
Who was oppressed and discriminated against?
those classed as "Coloured"
What laws did they introduce to support blacks?
affirmative action policies
Who declared Chinese South Africans as "Black People"?
the High Court in South Africa
What is another way "Coloureds" can be distinguished from "Blacks"?
language
How many sub-Saharan Black Africans were enslaved?
10 to 18 million
How many people in Yemen have African lineage? 
average of 38%
Who is seeking minority status from the government?
African-Iraquis
How many East African and black people live in Israel?
About 150,000
How many non-jewish African immigrants live in Israel?
around 60,000
When did the slave trade begin?
during the period of the Ottoman Empire
Who are the Siddi?
an ethnic group inhabiting India and Pakistan
Who were the first inhabitants of Southeast Asia?
The Negritos
What does the term "Moors" refer to?
Muslims
Who claimed that Maurus was derived from the Greek mauron?
Isidore of Seville
What are Afro-Spaniards?
Spanish nationals of West/Central African descent
In 2001 how many black people lived in the UK?
over a million black
When did African states become independent?
1960s
Where did the Ottoman slave trade flourish?
in the Balkans
Who has been referred to as "black people"?
Indigenous Australians
What was established to control the Indigenous Australians?
Aboriginal Protection Boards
Which race was growing faster after the First World War?
mixed-race people
Who did the government want raised as white?
"half-caste" individuals
When did human rights for Aboriginal people begin to improve?
The second half of the 20th century
Who wrote "Living Black?
Kevin Gilbert
What did the improvements in quality of life increase?
people self-identifying as Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander
Who described slaves as negars?
John Rolfe
When did "nigger" become a pejorative word?
By the 1900s
How did black people identify in early America?
by their specific ethnic group
What type of skin pigment does "Black" refer to?
the darkest through to the very lightest skin colors
Why did the use of "African" become an issue?
the majority of black people in the United States were native-born
Who argued for Americans to use the term "African American"?
Jesse Jackson
How does the U.S. census define "black" Americans?
having origins in any of the black (sub-Saharan) racial groups of Africa
What did the "one-drop" rule do?
classify as black a person of any known African ancestry
How is blackness described in the US?
the degree to which one associates themselves with mainstream African-American culture, politics, and values.
Who described Bill Clinton as "Black"?
Toni Morrison
Who is Obama possibly an ancestor of?
John Punch
How many Africans were shipped to the US between 1492 to 1888?
12 million
How are people in Brazil classified?
by appearance
What type of skin color has a better chance of a good life in Brazil?
lighter skin
How many slaves were shipped from Africa to Brazil between 1500 and 1850?
estimated 3.5 million
How much of the Brazilian population identified as black in 2000?
6.2%
What has Brazil avoided?
the binary polarization of society into black and white
In the US, how much of what white people earn, do blacks earn?
75%
What race has a very low rate of holding public office in Brazil?
blacks
What do critics claim people of color have?
limited media visibility
What would scholars like the term "Negro" to include?
all African-descended people
The Times is based in what major British city?
London
What year did The Times of India start?
1838
What major typeface font was started by The Times?
Times Roman
Traditionally, what political spectrum did The Times support?
moderate
The Times was founded by what publisher who also was the editor?
John Walter
In 1815, The Times had a circulation of how many people?
5,000
Who was appointed general editor for The Times in 1817?
Thomas Barnes
The Times was the first newspaper to send correspondents to what kind of event?
war
What major event did The Times reluctantly support in the nineteenth century despite being initially opposed?
Irish Potato Famine
What year did the founder's grandson succeed his father as editor of The Times?
1847
Which agency often used The Times for continental intelligence?
the Foreign Office
Which editor nearly ruined The Times in 1890?
Arthur Fraser Walter
Who was The Times' Chief Editor in 1914?
Wickham Steed
A Constantinople correspondent of The Times exposed what anti-Semitic document as a forgery?
The Protocols
In 1922, who bought The Times?
John Jacob Astor
Who was the name of the Soviet double agent who was the correspondent for The Times in Spain in the late 1930s?
Kim Philby
Between 1941 and 1946, which left-wing British historian was Assistant Editor for The Times?
E.H. Carr
In what year did The Times resume printing news on the front page instead of small advertisements?
1966
In 1979, which corporation was struggling to run The Times?
Thomson Corporation
A media magnate from which country bought The Times in the 1980s?
Australian
What corporation bought The Times in 1981?
News International
When The Times was bought in 1982, who resigned as editor?
William Rees-Mogg
Which major journalist resigned as foreign correspondent of the Times in 1988?
Robert Fisk
In what year did The Times ceased its policy of using courtesy titles for living persons before full names on first reference?
1990
In what year did News International begin producing The Times in both broadsheet in tabloid sizes?
2003
On 6 June 2005, The Times redesigned what page of its newspaper?
Letters page
In what year was the meeting of the House of Lords Select Committee on Communications that was investigating media ownership and the news?
2007
In May 2008, The Times switched from what plant to new plants in Broxbourne, Merseyside, and Glasgow?
Wapping
What major event took place in London in 2012?
London 2012 Olympics
The Times features what in the first half of its newspaper?
news
What is the name of the lifestyle column of The Times?
times2
What sports activity is featured in The Times on Mondays?
football
What is the name of the section of the Saturday edition of The Times that features travel and lifestyle?
Weekend
What is the name of the notable contributor to The Times Magazine columns that became the Food and Drink Writer of the Year in 2005?
Giles Coren
Since what year has The Times and The Sunday Times had an online presense?
1999
What is the name of the digital archive that holds The Times historical archive?
The Times Digital Archive
Visits to The Times website have decreased by how much since October 2011?
87%
What year was Harold Evans appointed to editor of The Times?
1981
Which newspaper has a significantly higher circulation, The Sunday Times or The Times?
The Sunday Times
In a 2009 national readership survey, what newspaper has the highest number of ABC1 25-44 readers?
The Times
The Times commissioned what serif typeface in 1931?
Times New Roman
At the 1945 general election, The Times adopted a stance that was referred to by what name?
peculiarly detached
In the 2001 general election, The Times declared support for what political party?
Labour
What is the name of the newspaper with the most varied political support in British history?
The Times
In what year did The Times make an endorsement for Barack Obama?
2012
What film festival does The Times support that is also supported alongside the British Film Institute?
London Film Festival
What is the name of the supplement that first appeared in 1902 as a supplement to The Times?
Times Literary Supplement
The Times began producing what kind of non-newspaper product in 1895?
Atlases
What is the name of the travel magazine sold by The Times?
Sunday Times Travel Magazine
In what novel was The Times featured as an organ of a totalitarian ruling party?
Nineteen Eighty-Four
The author, Rex Stout, created a fictional detection that is fond of solving London Times' crossword puzzles that goes by what name?
Nero Wolfe
The author, Ian Fleming, created a fictional character named James Bond who prefers to only read what newspaper?
The Times
In what children TV series is there is a fictional character named Uncle Bulgaria that asks others to bring him copies of The Times found amongst the litter?
The Wombles
In what territory is New Delhi located?
Delhi
Who laid the foundation stone of New Delhi?
George V
What are the two terms colloquially used to refer to the jurisdiction of NCT of Delhi?
Delhi and New Delhi
How many Indian cities have been selected to be developed as a smart city?
hundred
What city was the capital of India until December 1911?
Calcutta
Who announced that the capital of India would be moved from Calcutta to Delhi?
George V
Who rejected the proposals of Brodie and Lutyens?
the Viceroy
The construction of Connaught Place was completed in what year?
1933
A temporary secretariat building was built in New Delhi in what year?
1912
In what year did India gain independence?
1947
In what decade did New Delhi first extend significantly from Lutyen's Delhi?
the 1950s
What is the total area of New Delhi in square miles?
16.5 sq mi
What was the magnitude of the notable 2015 earthquake that shook New Delhi?
5.4 magnitude
In what type of climate is New Delhi located?
subtropical climate
What is New Delhi's rank in Mercer's 2015 quality of living survey?
154
In what season does New Delhi's air pollution worsen?
winter
On what date did the Supreme Court of India enact restrictions on Delhi's transportation system to reduce pollution?
December 16, 2015
New Delhi is the capital of what National Capital Territory?
Delhi
The government structure of the New Delhi Municipal Council includes three members from what government body?
New Delhi's Legislative Assembly
What is the official title of Delhi's head of state?
Lieutenant Governor of the Union Territory of Delhi
What is the name of the municipal government by which New Delhi is governed?
New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC)
What British architect was responsible for designing much of New Delhi?
Edwin Lutyens
Formerly known as the Viceroy's House, which large building is located at the heart of New Delhi?
Rashtrapati Bhavan
What major airport is located to the southwest of Delhi?
Indira Gandhi International Airport
The Delhi Flying Club was established in what year?
1928
In what year did Indira Gandhi International Airport earn an award for being forth best airport in the world in the 15-25 million category?
2010
What state-owned organization operates New Delhi's bus transport system?
Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC)
What Indian city is the headquarters of the Northern Railway?
New Delhi
What is the total length of the Delhi Metro?
189.63 kilometres
What organization operates the Delhi Metro system?
Delhi Metro Rail Corporation
What is the population of New Delhi?
249,998
What percentage of New Delhi's population is Hindu?
79.8%
What is the name of the holiday celebrated in India that occurs on Gandhi's Birthday?
Gandhi Jayanti
What religious festival is also known as the festival of light?
Diwali
The Nipponzan Myohoji decided to build a Peace Pagoda in new Delhi in what year?
2007
The New Delhi town plan was chosen primarily to symbolize what?
British power and supremacy
Approximately how long did it take to build New Delhi?
20 years
On what date was the National Museum formally inaugurated?
15 August 1949
What year was the India Gate built?
1931
The Rajpath was constructed similarly to what famous Parisian street?
the Champs-Élysées
In which location did Mahatma Gandhi spend the final 144 days of his life?
Gandhi Smriti
Who was responsible for constructing the Jantar Mantar?
Maharaja Jai Singh II of Jaipur
What is the name of the doll themed museum located in New Delhi?
Shankar's International Dolls Museum
The Buddha Jayanti Park is located in which Indian city?
New Delhi
New Delhi played host to what major athletic competition in 2010?
Commonwealth Games
What major tennis stadium is located in New Delhi?
R.K. Khanna Tennis Complex
What was the estimated net State Domestic Product of New Delhi for 2010?
₹1595 billion
What is the name of the large commercial and financial district located in the northern part of New Delhi?
Connaught Place
According to the 2011 World Health Report, where does New Delhi rank in terms of economic activity?
39
What government body is responsible for releasing the annual official economic report for Delhi?
The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi
What was the gross state domestic product of Delhi for 2011-12?
Rs 3.13 lakh crore
In what city is the Asian and Pacific Centre for Transfer of Technology located?
New Delhi
Who do the Shia believe are the rightful successors of Muhammad?
Imams
Who believe that Imamah is of the Principles of Faith?
Shias
Why did different sects come about within Shiism?
they differed over their Imams' successions
What is the basic characteristis of Muhammad and the prophets?
their nobility
What word literally means a person who stands or walks in front?
Imām
What group do the Shia tariqahs belong to?
Shia
How many great prophets has Allah sent?
seven
In Shia tariqah, what are the Twelvers commonly known as?
the "Shia"
How did al-Mahdi maintain contact during his Occultation?
via deputies
How do Ismailis differ from Twelvers?
living imams
What are the Mustali Ismaili Shia Muslims also known as?
Bohras/Dawoodi Bohra
Who do Muslims believe said "To whomsoever I am Mawla, Ali is his Mawla?
Muhammad
By what Quran verse to Shias believe that Imamah is a divine position?
2:124
Who was the brother of Hassan ibn 'Ali?
Hussayn ibn 'Alī
Where does migration mainly occur?
the northern hemisphere
When was migration first recorded?
3,000 years ago
Which birds migrate the furthest?
The Arctic tern
What causes the timing of migration?
changes in day length
Who recorded early records of migration?
Ancient Greek writers
Who noted that cranes traveled from Scythia to the Nile?
Aristotle
Which bird did Aristotle believe hibernated?
swallows
When was migration finally accepted?
the end of the eighteenth century
Who describes an experiment with swallows?
Bewick
Why do birds migrate?
response to changes in food availability, habitat, or weather
Along where do many birds migrate?
a flyway
What is the primary motivation for migration?
food
What is hightened during migration?
Predation
What is partial migration?
not all populations may be migratory
Which sex of the chaffinches Fringilla coelebs migrate earlier?
Female
How do most migrations begin?
the birds starting off in a broad front
How do most birds migrate?
in flocks
What part of birds was found on an expedition to Mt. Everest?
skeletons
How do penguins migrate?
by swimming
Where do the pink-footed goose migrate?
from Iceland to Britain
What route does a migrating bird usually follow?
an hooked or arched line
What do water birds avoid while migrating?
a large area of land without bodies of water
What are waders called in North America?
shorebirds
What does successful migration depend on for some waders?
the availability of certain key food resources
Which bird has the longest migration?
bar-tailed godwits
Which seabird has the longest-distance migration?
The Arctic tern
Which species are great wanderers?
pelagic
What do some large broad-winged birds rely on to help them soar?
thermal columns of rising hot air
When do many insectivorous birds migrate?
usually at night
What is a benefit of nocturnal migration?
minimize predation
What are many long distance migrants genetically programmed to do?
respond to changing day length
How many evolutionary origins do short distance passerine migrants have?
two
What species has no long-distance migratory relatives?
the waxwings Bombycilla
Where is there little variation in the length of day throughout the year?
In the tropics
For what reason would birds mor far beyond the normal range?
a good breeding season followed by a food source failure
In which hemisphere does bird migration primarily happen?
Northern
What controls a birds migration?
a primitive trait
What is the primary cue for migration?
changes in the day length
What is it called when males return earlier to the breeding sites than females?
protandry
What is navigation based on?
a variety of senses
When do long distance migrants disperse?
as young birds
What are older migrating birds better at?
making corrections for wind drift
What two electromagnetic tools do birds use to find their destinations?
one that is entirely innate and another that relies on experience
How can migrating birds lose their way?
flying past their destinations
What is it called when the genetic programing of young birds fail?
Reverse migration
What is it called when birds from one region join birds from a different region?
abmigration
What is a re-introduction scheme?
to teach a migration route to a flock of birds
What do birds need to change to meet the demands of migration?
their metabolism
How was migration developed?
independently
What percentage increase in flight distance will often be adaptive?
20%
What is expected to have an effect on migration timing?
climatic changes
What other species does migration help?
ectoparasites such as ticks and lice
Who takes advantage of migrating birds?
Greater noctule bats
What is the oldest way to study migration?
marking
How are orientation behavior studies traditionally carried out?
the Emlen funnel
What threatens some bird species?
Hunting along migration routes
What is the name of the island on which Atlantic City is located?
Absecon Island
What is the name of the first commercial hotel built in Atlantic City?
The Belloe House
What other US city was linked to Atlantic City by the Camden and Atlantic Railroad train service?
Philadelphia
In what year was the first boardwalk built in Atlantic City?
1870
The first road connected Atlantic City to which mainland town?
Pleasantville
By what year was demand so great that one railroad line could no longer keep up with the demand?
1878
When did Atlantic City go through a radical building boom?
early part of the 20th century
In what year did Josiah White III by land to build a hotel?
1903
What was the name of the hotel located at the corner of Illinois Avenue and the boardwalk?
The Traymore Hotel
What year did the Quaker-owned Chalfonte House open?
1868
In what year was salt water taffy conceived?
1883
What years do many historians consider Atlantic City's golden age?
1920s
During the 1920s, who was the mayor of Atlantic City?
Edward L. Bader
Who was a meeting organized for in 1929 in Atlantic City?
organized crime figures from all across America
Which Atlantic City neighborhood became particularly impoverished in the mid-to-late 20th century?
the "Inlet"
What event was hosted by Atlantic City in 1964?
Democratic National Convention
By what years were many of the great hotels suffering from high vacancy rates?
the late 1960s
In what year did New Jersey voters pass a referendum approving casino gambling for Atlantic City?
1976
Atlantic City's tourism began to decline due to what failure?
to diversify away from gaming
In what year did the tunnel open?
2001
When did the Sands Atlantic City close permanently?
November 11, 2006
In what year did Morgan Stanley purchase land for a new casino resort?
2006
How long had Atlantic City held a monopoly on casino gambling?
40-year
When did "Superstorm Sandy" strike Atlantic City?
October 29, 2012
According to the United States Census Bureau, what is the total area in square miles?
17.037 square miles
Besides Chelsea, City Island, and Great Island, what other community, locality, or place name is included in the city?
Venice Park
What is the daily average temperature in July?
75.6 °F
How many inches of precipitation does Atlantic City receive annually?
40 inches
How many people were residing in Atlantic City during the 2010 United States Census?
39,558
How many households were there in Atlantic City during the 2010 United States Census?
15,504
What percentage of the population was under the age of 18?
24.6%
How much was the median household income according to the American Community Survey?
$30,237
According to the 2000 United States Census, how many people were living in Atlantic City?
40,517
How many households had children under the age of 18 living with them?
27.7%
What was the median age of Atlantic City?
35 years
What was the median income for a household in the city?
$26,969
As of September 2014, the greater Atlantic City area had one of the highest rates in the country of what?
unemployment
In 2010, who stated that a state takeover of the city and local government of Atlantic City was imminent?
Governor Chris Christie
What year were the boundaries for the state-run tourism district finally set?
2011
How many roadways will be included in the district?
10
What is Atlantic City known for?
Gambling Capital of the East Coast
How many casino closures took place in Atlantic City in 2014?
four
What did Trump Entertainment Group say they were considering doing with the Trump Taj Mahal?
selling
How many remaining properties belong to Caesars Entertainment?
three
What was Boardwalk Hall formerly known as?
Historic Atlantic City Convention Hall
What is Atlantic City sometimes referred to?
Monopoly City
What popular property in Monopoly was actually a misspelling?
Marvin Gardens
In general, what does immunology study?
immune systems in all organisms
The term immunology is derived from a Latin word that means what?
exempt
The structure of immune system components can be described as what?
typically cellular in nature
Which two fields of study are associated with immunology?
epidemiology and medicine
What is the basic, primitive part of the immune system known as?
innate immune system
Humoral immunology involves the interaction of what two elements?
antibodies and antigens
In the field of immunology, what aspect is becoming more specialized?
research
The study of diseases caused by immune system disorders is called?
Clinical immunology
What is a type of immune system disorder?
hypersensitivities
What is the most famous immune system disease?
AIDS
What are the four factors that determine how the body reacts to an antigen?
person's age, antigen type, maternal factors and the area
In babies, what is another element impacting immune response?
Maternal factors
What is the primary trigger for immunological changes in teens?
hormones
The routine practice of immunology can best be characterized as?
strongly experimental
What medical scientist first proposed the clonal selection theory of immunology?
Frank Burnet
What discipline can undergraduate students interested in general health study?
Bioscience
Most graduate schools specializing in immunology follow what organization's parameters?
AAI courses
Part 1 of the AAI introductory immunology course is meant to be what?
an introduction to the basic principles of immunology
What is the common name for MPEG-2 Audio Layer III?
MP3
What is the main goal aside from reducing the amount of data required to store the audio?
sound like a faithful reproduction
What does the compression target in the song?
accuracy
Who designed MP3?
Moving Picture Experts Group
What does the MP3 compression take advantage of?
perceptual limitation
What was first proposed in 1979?
The psychoacoustic masking codec
What does OCF stand for?
Optimum Coding in the Frequency Domain
What kind of student was Karlheinz Brandenburg?
doctoral
What was the name of the first song used to develop the MP3?
Tom's Diner
How many proposals were available in 1991?
two
What was only incorporated into Layer III and not Layers I or II?
filter bank
What was the name given to the proposal?
ASPEC
What did the working group integrate their ideas with?
filter bank
When were the algorithms approved?
1991
Further work on MPEG was finalized as a part of which MPEG standard?
second suite
As MPEG-3 had a different meaning, what was the name given to the extension of MPEG-2?
MPEG-2.5 audio
What defines the compression efficiency of encoders?
bit rate
What type of recording did Brandenburg use?
CD
Who developed the reference simulation software?
the ISO MPEG Audio committee
When was the first software MP3 encoder released?
7 July 1994
What was Jonathan Sterne's profession?
sound scholar
Where did MP3s begin to spread?
the Internet
Which website offered MP3s for free?
mp3.com
What kind of infringement resulted from sharing MP3s?
copyright
What kind of MP3 file sharing continues on?
Unauthorized
A header and data block together make up what?
MP3 frames
Which standard does not include a specification for an MP3 encoder?
MPEG-1
How many domain samples are taken during encoding?
576
What kind of structure does a filter bank have?
tree
What is carefully defined in the standard?
Decoding
What is there no official provision for?
gapless playback
A typical trade off when creating an MP3 file is between the amount of space used and what other factor?
sound quality of the result
If the bit rate is too low, what might be audible in the reproduction?
compression artifacts
Other than the bit rate and the difficulty of the signal, what can also affect the quality of an MP3 file?
quality of the encoder
How many bit rates does the simplest type of MP3 file use?
one
A listening environment is also know by which term?
ambient noise
Who gave students a test to determine their preferences?
Music Professor Jonathan Berger
What is the name of the study done by composer Ryan Maguire?
The Ghost in the MP3
What is the name of the sampling theorem?
Nyquist–Shannon
What sampling rate is used for CD audio?
44.1 kHz
What is stored on an audio-CD that has a bit rate of 1,411.2 kbit/s?
Uncompressed audio
The LAME encoder allows bit rates that are what?
Non-standard
What does the term CBR mean?
Constant Bit Rate
What kind of audio can a sophisticated MP3 encoder produce?
variable bitrate audio
A partially full frame's ability to have part of the next frame's audio data is referred to as what?
bit reservoir
What can scale factor band 21 be shortened to?
sfb21
What is a section of a file that contains metadeta referred to as?
tag
Other than the ID3v1, which similar standard format for tag exists?
ID3v2
What is the name given to the standard for measure and storing the loudness of an MP3 file?
ReplayGain
Where is the basic MP3 decoding and technology patent free?
European Union
What has many organizations claiming ownership of patents related to aspects of MP3 led to?
legal threats
What became publicly available on 6 December 1991?
MPEG-1 standard
How long does it take for patents to expire in the United States?
17 years after the publication date
What was Technicolor's previous name?
Thomson Consumer Electronics
When did the Fraunhofer institute send out a letter?
September 1998
Who was sued for patent infringement on MP3 technology?
Thomson
What did German officials seize from SanDisk on September 2006?
MP3 players
Who sued Apple, Samsung Electronics and Sandisk in 2007?
Texas MP3 Technologies
Which company allegedly inherited MP3 patents from AT&T-Bell LAbs?
Alcatel-Lucent
AAC, mp3PRO and MP2 are all members of the same technological family as which other lossy format?
MP3
Opus and Vorbis are two explans of what kind of compression format?
open
What is a significant alternative to MP3?
lossless formats
What city did House music originate from?
Chicago
House music is characterized by what type of beats?
4/4 beats
When was the second wave of progressive house?
1999–2001
What instruments did disco songs incorporate from house music?
synthesizers and drum machines
What influenced House music?
Soul and disco
What was the name of Charanjit Singh's 1982 album?
Synthesizing: Ten Ragas to a Disco Beat
Who is Rachel Cain?
co-founder of an influential Trax Records
who were the chicago radio jocks that played dance music in the early 1980s?
The Hot Mix 5
who produced the song "on and on" in 1984?
Jesse Saunders
when was jesse saunders' "on and on" a hit?
1984
what producer was the first to produce deep house? 
Mr Fingers
When was Phuture's "Acid Tracks" released?
1987
what radio station aired the Hot Mix 5 show?
WBMX-FM
what club did the term 'house music' originate from?
The Warehouse
what is the name of Chip E's 1985 house hit?
"It's House"
who ran the D.J. International record label?
Rocky Jones
What was the stage name of Larry Heard?
Mr. Fingers
What is Juan Atkins an originator of?
Detroit techno music
Who did House relay political messages to? 
outcasts of society
what was one of the earliest Detroit techno hits?
"Big Fun" by Inner City
Mayday and Thomas Barnett released what hit in 1987?
"Nude Photo"
who founded KMS Records?
Kevin Saunderson
what is credited as the first house hit in the UK?
Farley "Jackmaster" Funk's "Love Can't Turn Around"
What was the first house single to hit #1 in the UK?
Steve "Silk" Hurley's "Jack Your Body"
what tour boosted house in the UK in the late 80s?
Knuckles, Jefferson, Fingers Inc. (Heard) and Adonis as the DJ International Tour
who released the hit single "promised land"?
Joe Smooth
what cities in the UK had major house scenes?
Birmingham, Leeds, Sheffield and London
what tiny island was house music also being devloped on?
Ibiza
what group did Marshall Jefferson form?
Ten City Byron Burke, Byron Stingily & Herb Lawson(from "intensity")
atkins was a former member of what music group?
Cybotron
what was a top club for house music in new york city?
Paradise Garage
what label launched the careers of burrell?
Nu Groove Records
what is the oldest dance club in america?
Jewel's Catch One
what madonna single is credited as helping bring house music to the mainstream?
Vogue
What gospel/R&B-influenced group released "Time Passes On" in 1993?
Aly-us
where did the "chilling out" concept develop?
Britain
what act was passed in england in an attempt to ban large rave dance events?
Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994
where was a new type of club called Cream located?
Liverpool
Daft Punk began producing a new sound out of what european city?
Paris
When was House Unity Day in Chicago?
August 10, 2005
Defected Records was at the forefront of what type of house music?
vocal house
Where did the Winter Music Conference take place? 
Miami
What was different about swedish progressive house music?
snare-less
There has been a reunification of contemporary house with what?
its roots
The terms uppercase and lowercase originated from the common layout which type of drawers?
shallow
What is the basis of capitalization standards for the sentence-style capitalization?
sentences
Which century did the lower-case script for the Greek Alphabet originate?
7th
In orthography and typography, what is the distinction between the letters that are in larger upper case and lower upper case
letter case
Capitalization in English is universally standardized for which type of writing?
formal
Originally alphabets were written entirely in which type of letter?
majuscule
What is often prescribed by the grammar of a language or by conventions of a particular discipline?
Letter case
Who do majuscules have which distinguish themselves from minuscules?
generally have the same height
What do most Western languages use in their written form to add clarity?
letter cases
Papyri from Herculaneum dating before 79 AD have been to to be written in which hand writing?
old Roman cursive
What is capitalization of significant words applied to in the United States besides titles?
headings
Attempts to unify Latin, Greek, and Cyrillic would create which sort of problems?
make casing operations an unholy mess
What was the name of the nomad tribes that hunted bison?
Jornado
What was the name of the town in which Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla declared independence?
Dolores
Who did Santa Anna order the reinstatement as comandante general?
Mendarozqueta
What was the name of the treaty that ended the war?
The Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo
Which countries owned Mexican debt?
Spain, England, and France
Who was deeply dissatisfied with Bazaine's decision to abandon Chihuahua?
Maximilian
In which year did Benito Juarez die?
1872
Which year did Orozco revolt?
1912
Which state has more forests than Chihuahua?
Durango
Which city did Villa raid?
Columbus, New Mexico
Along which mountain range does the Cave of Windows lie?
Sierra Madre
Which precious metal did Biezma discover?
silver
In which areas were the earliest human inhabitants discovered?
Samalayuca and Rancho Colorado
How many people left the state for the U.S. between 2000-2005?
49,722
Which nicknames were used to form the conservative and liberal elements?
Chirrines and Cuchas
Which cities was Ibarra looking for?
Cibola and Quivira
What percentage of the population over 15 could read and write Spanish?
95.6%
The state's economy ranks in what place in the country Mexico
12th-largest
Who was the first person elected under the new constitution?
Simón Elías Gonzalez
In which region of the state did culture develop?
northern
Until what year did the state remain calm?
1841
Which city became the launching place for expeditions into New Mexico?
Santa Bárbara
Who was hailed as the Father of the Nation?
Hidalgo
In which year did Doniphan march with men from Missouri?
1847
Who supported the reaction against the government?
Durango
Who was deposed under threat from conservative forces?
Governor Terrazas
In which year was the new constitution ratified?
1855
Brincourt made preparations to invade which state?
Chihuahua
Where did Aguirre defeat the French forces?
Parral
Who declared war on Mexico in 1846?
The United States
The elections of which year caused new hostilities?
1875
Under which governor was the education system unified?
Miguel Ahumada
The internal stability was known as what?
paz porfiriana
Orozco responded to whose letter to action?
Madero
War with what country seemed imminent?
United States
Which state is the largest in the country by land?
Chihuahua
Climate in the state depends mainly on what?
elevation of the terrain
The Chihuahuan Desert is home to many of which type of animal?
mammals
Villa became an enemy of whom?
Carranza
Which months make up the pronounced rainy season in the steppe?
July, August, and September
The state has great diversity thanks to the large number of what?
microclimates
Which city in the state exceeds one million?
Ciudad Juárez
French forces tried to capture the liberal government based where?
Saltillo
Benito Juarez was reelected in which year?
1867
The Diaz administration allowed the elite to concentrate wealth by favoring what?
monopolies
The Porfiriato ended in which year?
1910
The uneasy alliance between whom eventually won rebels the victory?
Carranza, Obregón, Villa, and Zapata
Which is the main mountain range in the state?
Sierra Madre Occidental
Which city is known for its sand dunes?
Samalayuca
The state hosts populations of birds of both endemic species and what?
migratory species
Who invited Canadians to resettle in Mexico during the Mexican Revolution?
Álvaro Obregón
Agriculture varies across the state because of the variation in what?
climate
What was the first province of northern New Spain to be explored?
Nueva Vizcaya
Hidalgo was turned over by whom?
Bishop of Durango, Francisco Gabriel de Olivares
During which year was the federal government unstable?
1828
Military command was given to whom based on his firmness?
Colonel J.J. Calvo
What group continuously attacked Mexican settlements?
indigenous tribes
Which political forces maintained strong control over the state until shortly after French intervention?
liberal
Juarez again based his government in which state?
Chihuahua
The officials in Mexico reduced the price of what food from six cents to two cents per pound?
corn
The state's economy was largely defined by these two industries.
ranching and mining
Who issued the Plan de Guadalupe?
Venustiano Carranza
The desert zone accounts for how much of the state's surface area?
about a third
Canis latrans is what animal?
coyote
The last census in Mexico that asked for race was carried out in which year?
1921
What agreement sparked industrial development during the 1990s?
NAFTA
What type of sensation is pitch?
auditory
Octaves in linear pitch are what size?
12
What is the most common method of organization?
twelve-note chromatic scale
Pitch is the auditory attribute to what?
sound
This produces many modes of vibration that occur simultaneously?
sound generated
The pitch of complex tones can be?
ambiguous
The just-noticeable difference, at which a change is perceived depends on what?
the tone's frequency content
Which drum has a higher perceived pitch even though they both have indefinite pitch?
snare drum
The notion of pitch is insensitive to what?
spelling
The precise way this temporal structure helps code for pitch at higher levels is based on what?
autocorrelation of action potentials in the auditory nerve
When did King Richard I begin his reign?
1189
What color were England's first away kits?
blue
In what year was England most recently eliminated from FIFA World Cup contention?
2014
In what year did England suffer their first defeat at home to a foreign team?
1949
In what year did Capello resign as England's football manager?
2012
Which governing body controls the England national football team?
The Football Association
In which year did England join FIFA?
1906
In which place did England finish in the UEFA European Football Championship in 1968?
third place
A defeat by which team eliminated England from the 1970 FIFA World Cup?
West Germany
Who was the first non-English person to manage England's football team?
Sven-Göran Eriksson
Commentated broadcasts of all England matches air on what network?
BBC Radio 5 Live
In how many FIFA world cups has England appeared?
14
Where were Augustus Chapman Allen and John Kirby Allen from?
New York
What event cause shipping activities to be suspended?
World War II
In what year did the space shuttle Challenger explode after launch?
1986
What materials are underpinning the land surface of Houston?
unconsolidated clays, clay shales, and poorly cemented sands
Downtown Houston consisted of what type of building in the 1960's?
mid-rise office structures
Houston ranked 3rd in which category by Forbes magazine in 2006?
Best Places for Business and Careers
What is the largest annual event held in Houston?
Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo
What does Houston have the most of compared to other large US cities?
parks and green space
Who is the current mayor of Houston?
Sylvester Turner
What was the first public television station in the US?
KUHT (HoustonPBS)
Where is Houston located?
in Southeast Texas near the Gulf of Mexico
What commodity was Houston known for in 1860? 
cotton
What event caused 2.5 million people to evacuate through Houston?
Hurricane Rita
What is the largest city in the U.S. without formal zoning?
Houston
Of what is Houston a center?
oilfield equipment
What area of Houston hosts performing arts?
Houston Theater District
How much area of downtown Houston does the Theater District cover?
17-block area
Which stadium is located in east downtown in Houston?
BBVA Compass Stadium
What is Houston's one Catholic university?
The University of St. Thomas
Where in Houston is the world's largest grouping of healthcare institutions?
Texas Medical Center
Until 2010, which airline made Houston its headquarters?
Continental Airlines
What city has more Fortune 500 headquarters than Houston?
New York City
What kind of winter weather does Houston have?
mild winters
How much money does the University of Houston attract to Houston a year?
$1.1 billion
When was Houston founded?
1836
In what part of the United States is Houston located?
South
What event caused an increase in effort to promote the Houston port?
hurricane
What is the square mile area of Houston?
656.3 square miles
How many days per year are Houston temperatures over 90 degrees?
106.5
What is the political climate of Houston?
divided
How much of Houston's population is white?
51%
What was Houston's gross domestic product in 2012?
$489 billion
What Houston medical school ranks in the top ten U.S. medical schools?
Baylor College of Medicine
Where did Houston rank for job creation in 2013?
#1
How many community colleges serve Houston?
Three
When did Houston start using light rail lines?
January 1, 2004
What is the second airport that serves Houston?
William P. Hobby Airport
How many estimated active faults does Houston have?
300
What system of incorporation was used in 1837 by Houston?
ward system
What area is located at Post Oak Boulevard and Westheimer Road?
Uptown District
Besides oil and gas, what is Houston known for?
biomedical research and aeronautics
How did Kiplinger's Personal Finance Best Cities rate Houston?
top ranking
For which sports team category does Houston not have a team ?
National Hockey League
How many members did the original Houston city council have?
14
How many students does the University of Houston have?
40,000
What is Houston's major newspaper?
Houston Chronicle
What is the type of freeway system that serves Houston?
hub-and-spoke
How does Houston's George Bush Intercontinental Airport rank for number of passengers?
tenth-busiest
Where was copper mostly mined at in the Roman era?
Cyprus
When was copper first known to have been used?
9000 BC
What material were the gates of the Temple of Jerusalem made from?
Corinthian bronze
What metal is used most often in electrical wiring?
copper
What word means that bacteria won't grow on a substrate?
biostatic
What group of the periodic table is copper in?
group 11
What is the concentration of copper in the earths crust.
50 parts per million
What was copper called in Greece?
chalkos
What are compounds that have a carbon-copper bond called?
organocopper compounds
Who used copper to produce art?
Renaissance sculptors
What property of copper increases the efficiency of electrical motors?
conductivity
Name a compond that can mobilize sold copper?
Chromobacterium violaceum
What is an intrinsic property of copper-alloy touch surfaces?
antimicrobial
What are copper compounds in liquid form used for?
wood preservative
How long has copper been in use?
at least 10,000 years
What did Romans use as money in the 6th through 3rd centuriesBC?
copper lumps
What percentage of copper is used in electrical wires?
60%
What is the explanation for copper's capacity for electrical conductivity?
The softness
In what form is copper extracted?
copper sulfides
What percent of copper is recyclable?
100%
What pigment color is natural to copper?
green
What are copper salts sometimes used for?
suicide attempts
When did Britain first use brass?
3rd–2nd century BC
How many isotopes are there of copper?
29
What is the alloy of copper and nickel called?
cupronickel
What is the name of the componds that has more than one alcohol functional group?
Polyols
What started about 4000 years after copper smelting was discovered?
Alloying copper with tin to make bronze
What is the level of copper in the human body?
1.4 to 2.1 mg per kg of body mass
What is the average concentration of copper in ores?
0.6%
How many metals have a natural color that isn't gray?
four
What has copper been used for since ancient times?
architectural material
Self-image, self-esteem, and individuality relate to what?
A psychological identity
The central task for psychologists, sociologists, and anthropologists is to describe what topics?
individual and group identity
Identity diffusion, foreclosure, and crisis are categories of what?
Weinreich's identity variant
What group has shifted the focus of research in identity?
Anthropologists
What are gender identity, ethnic identity, and occupational identity aspects of?
one's total identity
What is distinct from the self?
identity
Self-psychology is compelled to investigate how personal self relates to what?
the social environment
What term have Anthropologists employed to refer to the Eriksonian idea of selfhood?
identity
What are the two types of group boundaries?
inclusive or exclusive
What identity status paradigm emerged due to the work of James Marcia?
Neo-Eriksonian
What do many people gain from their identity groups?
a sense of positive self-esteem
What approach takes the sense of self and belonging as a fixed thing?
a primordialist approach
Various research traditions are using what lens to examine phenomena?
the lens of identity
What is it called when someone aspires to the characteristics of significant others?
benign
What may a person display in terms of both exploration and commitments?
relative weakness or relative strength
Many scholars confuse identity as a category of practice and what other category?
category of analysis
What is identified as determining how a person views him or herself to a significant degree?
Gender identity
Who was one of the earliest psychologists to take an explicit interest in identity?
Erik Erikson
Whose definition of identity closely follows Erikson's?
Laing's
Who formulated the classifications of strategic manipulator, pastiche personality and the relational self?
Kenneth Gergen
What concept helps map and define people's experiences of self in society?
the concept of boundaries
What is the third fastest growing economy in India?
Himachal Pradesh
When did the Chief Commissioners Province of HP come into being?
15 April 1948
When did Congress secure an absolute majority?
In the assembly elections held in November 2012
Himachal is extremely rich in?
hydro electric resources
What is the state well known for?
handicrafts
What tribes inhibited the area that now constitutes Himachal Pradesh?
Koilis, Halis, Dagis, Dhaugris, Dasa, Khasas, Kinnars, and Kirats
What does Himachal have a rich heritage of?
handicrafts
Who heads the Himachal Pradesh?
Deputy Commissioner or District Magistrate
When did the era of planning start in Himachal Pradesh?
1948
Where did the state place on population chart?
21st
What other religions form a small percentage?
Buddhism and Sikhism
When did the Gurkhas come into power?
1768
What occurs in the climatic conditions of Himachal?
great variation
What does the Himachal legislature consist of?
elected members and special office bearers such as the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker who are elected by the members
What is Railway Himachal famous for?
its narrow gauge tracks railways
Who is famous for natural beauty?
Himachal Pradesh
Who has an active community of journalists and publishers?
Himachal Pradesh
Who was elected as chief minister of the state of India?
Virbhadra Singh
What type of agriculture is in the state?
seed potato, ginger, vegetables, vegetable seeds, mushrooms, chicory seeds, hops, olives and fig
Who was largely untouched by external customs?
Himachal
When was the state run Nehru Government Engineering College started?
2006 at Sundernagar
What is Doordarshan?
state-owned television broadcaster
Where do 90% of the population live in Himachal Pradesh?
villages and towns
What is nonverbal communication?
conveying meaning in the form of non-word messages
Why do fungi communicate?
to coordinate and organize their growth and development
What acts are included in communication between parties?
confer knowledge and experiences, give advice and commands, and ask questions
What is human communication defined as?
a system of symbols
What is some factors in family communication that could affect communication between family members?
family rules, family roles or family dialectics
How is animal communication defined?
any behavior of one animal that affects the current or future behavior of another animal
Who introduced the first major model for communication in 1949?
Claude Shannon and Warren Weaver
A simple model is also referred to as what?
transmission model
How are the sender and receiver connected in a slightly more complex form of communication model?
reciprocally
What is a form of communication observed within plants?
between plant cells
What describes communication as creative and dynamic rather than discrete?
Theories of coregulation
Why do communications professionals typically specialize in only one or two areas of communication?
it is difficult to develop such a broad range of skills
What color are white grapes?
green
How long ago were grapes first cultivated?
6,000–8,000 years ago
What do people in France eat more of that in most western countries?
animal fat
What juice is made when grapes are crushed and blended?
Grape juice
What type of wine is fermented with grape skin?
red wine
What are grapes that are eaten raw classified as?
table grapes
When are grapes first mentioned in the Bible?
Genesis 9:20–21
How many seedless grape sources are there for commercial cultivators? 
three
What are the most abundant polyphenolics in purple grapes?
Anthocyanins
What church uses wine to celebrate the Eucharist?
The Catholic Church
What must an operator deviate from to harm the computer?
secure procedures
What are attacks designed to make a machine or network unavailable to its intended users?
Denial of service attacks
What were researchers in 2011 able to use as a successful attack vector?
a malicious compact disc in a car's stereo system
How many organisations are estimated to maintain computer systems with effective detection systems?
relatively few
Technology that is used to implement secure operating systems is one use of what term?
computer security
When was Chine's network security and information technology leadership team established?
February 27, 2014
What is the act of surreptitiously listening to a private conversation?
Eavesdropping
What are desktop computers and laptops commonly infected with?
malware
What does ACL stand for?
access control lists
In what year did over a hundred intrusions made into the Rome Laboraroty?
1994
When did The Impact Team successfully breach Ashley Madison?
July of 2015
According to goverment officials, what has the failure of the private sector to solve efficiently the cybersecurity problem created?
a crucial need for regulation
When did Public Safety Canada unveil Canada's Cyber Security Strategy?
October 3, 2010
What is a potential attack vector for utilities such as the power grid?
The Internet
Firewalls and exit procedures are considered what?
"preventive" measures
What has caused serious financial damage?
security breaches
Microchips vulnerabilities are introduced when?
during the manufacturing process
What does CCIRC stand for?
Canadian Cyber Incident Response Centre
Who said "Connectedness begets vulnerability?"
Jay Cross
When did Public Safety Canada partner with Stop.Think. Connect?
September 27, 2010
Installing keyloggers and making operating system modifications are examples of ways unauthorized users for what?
compromise security
UI redress attack or User Interface redress attack is also known as what?
Clickjacking
How many computers were connected to the internet in 1988?
60,000
Who are Rescator?
a Russian/Ukrainian hacking ring
What does NCAZ stand for?
Nationales Cyber-Abwehrzentrum
What is the approach to Judiasm that subscribes to a tradition of mass revelation?
Orthodox
What is the global Jewish news service known as?
JTA
What is the name  of the movement that comporises a fairly broad spectrum of distinct but related philosophies? 
Modern Orthodoxy
How do orthodox women dress mosly?
covered
What is the written law of the Torah known as?
Pentateuch
Where was Rabbi Azriel Hildesheimer from?
Berlin
When is a newborn boy's hair first cut?
third birthday
What type of Judaism advocated segregation from non-Jewish culture?
Haredi Judaism
Where was the written law and the oral law transmitted?
Mount Sinai
What maintains a historical understanding of jewish Identity?
Orthodox Judaism
What do haredi Judaism and modern orthodox Judaism disagree about the application of?
Halakha
What is jewish law today based on?
Torah
What overlaps significantly with Hasidic Judiasm?
Haredi Judaism
What is the fertility rate among non-orthodox Jewish families??
1.9 children
Orthodox Jews subsciribing to modern orthodoxy tend to be what political alignment typically?
right-wing
What does the US national council for Young Isreal represent?
Modern Orthodoxy
what is the name of the movement of liberalism?
Haskalah
When can the roots of orthodox judaism be traced to?
19th century
What do orthodox Jews express ambivalence towards?
Zionism
Tamudic schools are known as what?
yeshivot
What considers itself the only true heir to the Jewish tradition?
Orthodox Judaism
Borough Park, Midwood, Williamsburg and Crown heights have particularly large communities of what?
American Orthodox Jews
Who did the modern orthodoxy arise from?
Western European Jewry
What do Orthodox Jews turn to for guidance and practical application of jewish law?
Shulchan Aruch
Who held the opinion that judiasm demands and application of torah thought to the entire realm of human experience?
Hirsch
Where does the word animal come from?
Latin animalis
What type of cells do all animals have?
eukaryotic
What is the biological interaction where a predator feeds on its prey called?
Predation
Ctenophora and the Cnidaria include what sea creatures?
anemones, corals, and jellyfish
What sets animals apart from bacteria  and most protists?
Animals are eukaryotic and multicellular
What is the hollow sphere that a zygote initially develops into called?
blastula
How long ago do some paleontologists believe that animals first appeared?
1 billion years
It is believed that animals evolved from what?
a flagellated eukaryote
What is the group of animals that often have a specialized head with feeding and sensory organs called?
Bilateria
What are some examples of non-bilaterian animals?
Porifera, Ctenophora, Cnidaria and Placozoa
What groups is named after the trait of growth by moulting or ecdysis?
Ecdysozoa
Why is it more economical for scientists to study a small number of species?
the great diversity found in animals
What are two of the most successful animal phyla?
Mollusca and Annelida
Animal phyla that are recognized for their lack of bilateral symmetry are thought to have come from where?
other animals early in evolution
What do deuterostomes and protostomes have in common?
both groups possess a complete digestive tract
What is another name for flatworm?
Platyhelminthes
How do most animals use the energy of sunlight?
eating plants or plant-eating animals
What is the process of making beer called?
brewing
In breweries, what do you call a small vat that is filled with hops?
a hopback
What is the main source of starch and most beer?
barley malt
What is a brewery called that makes a small amount of beer?
microbrewery
What is the main source of the alcohol in beer?
sugars
What would you call a frame that holds the cask of beer horizontally when it arrives at the pub?
stillage
What type of alcohol is found in beer?
ethyl alcohol
What types of containers is beer generally sold in?
bottles and cans
What is the main ingredient in beer?
water
In what year did William IV adopt a purity law pertaining to beer?
1516
What is the main cause for the bitterness in beer?
Hops
What is the first step of brewing when malted barley is mixed with hot water?
mashing
What causes fermentation during the brewing process when making a beer?
yeast
In what year were hops first known to be used in beer?
822 AD
In what year was the name Porter first used for a dark beer?
1721
What percentage of beer was sold in cans in Sweden in 2001?
63.9%
How much alcohol is in Schorschbock 57?
57,5%
What kind of containers are used for bottle conditioned beers?
Glass bottles
In addition to a lack of muscle tone, what is believed to be the main cause of the beer belly?
overeating
What type of starch is used to make the beer Oshikundu?
sorghum or millet
When does evidence show the earliest known barley beer was produced?
circa 3500–3100 BC
What is a kettle called that is used to boil sweet wort after sparging?
copper
What is generally used as starch in most beer?
malted grain
How many liters of beer are bought and sold every year?
More than 133 billion
What does abv stand for?
alcohol by volume
What is the term used for the study of beer?
zythology
What is most popular alcoholic drink in the world?
Beer
What year were hops first believed to be added to beer?
822
What is the origin of the word ale?
Old English ealu
How much alcohol is contained in the beer Vetter 33?
10.5%
What beer is better for the environment than bottled beer?
Draught beer's
What technology support the drinking of chilled beer?
artificial refrigeration
What is beers primary active ingredient?
alcohol
What hormone can be triggered by the flavor of beer alone in males?
dopamine
What word was dropped as a racial classification in this year's census?
Mulatto
In what year were census respondents first able to select more than one race? 
2000
What organization recommended that race and ethnicity categories be combined into one question for the 2000 US census?
the American Anthropological Association
Who defines the concept of race in the United States Census?
OMB
How many ethnic categories are there in the US census?
two
What country did President Frankiln Roosevelt have a good neighbor policy for in hopes of a better relationship?
Mexico
Who decided on the standards for the classification of race and ethnicity and federal data?
OMB
In what year were free persons first listed individually in the US census?
1850
What race selection did the census bureau consider getting rid of before the 2000 census?
Some other race
What act has rules and regulations for bilingual election? 
the Voting Rights Act
In what year was the term race first used in the U.S. Census?
1890
How many ethnicities or federal agencies required to use in data collection?
a minimum of two
What is the US dollar based upon?
a decimal system of values
Which symbol is used to represent the dollar?
$
What color was predominantly used?
green
Who has the power "to coin money"?
United States Congress
Who began minting the coins known as Joachimstalers?
Count Hieronymus Schlick of Bohemia
What condition does a person have to meet to  be allowed by law on a coin?
deceased
Which year was it when paper money was first issued without the backing of precious metals?
1777
In which year was the new $1 US Presidential coin introduced?
2007
Who can create "new high-powered money"?
Federal Reserve
During which times does the value of the dollar typically decline?
wartime
What would zero inflation mean for the US dollar over time?
constant value
What is "dollars" a reference to?
the Spanish milled dollar
What is a "grand" sometimes shortened to?
"G"
What defined the US dollar?
Coinage Act of 1792
What is specifically produced for collectors?
Proof Sets
What dictates that a receipt for expenditures of all public money must be published?
The Constitution
What is the highest currently printed denomination of bill?
$100
What is the British equivalent of a "buck"?
quid
What was the value of the U.S. dollar no longer anchored to?
gold
What was the look of the dollar based on?
Spanish dollar
What was the name of the act introduced in the year 1900?
Gold Standard Act
Other than Florida, which other state got send error coins?
Tennessee
What power was Congress given by the Constitution?
borrow money on the credit of the United States
What is the short term goal of open market operations?
achieve a specific short-term interest rate target
When was the Bretton Woods system established?
after World War II
What kind of money is the U.S. dollar?
fiat money
What are dollar notes made from now adays?
cotton fiber paper
When was the Mint Act passed?
1792
What are gold and silver coins valuable for now adays?
their precious metal value
When were silver dollars first minted?
1794
What do coins, Federal Reserve Notes and deposits held by despository institutions make up?
The monetary base
What does the decline in value of the dollar correspond to?
price inflation
When was the Royal College of Chemistry established?
1845
When was the City and Guilds College founded?
1876
When did Imperial announce their science park program at the Wye Campus?
December 2005
What was the market value of the endowment the college received on July 31, 2015?
£512.4 million
How many staff members did Imperial submit assessments of for the REF assessment?
1,257
When was Professor Stefan Grimm found dead?
September 2014
Which day was the Imperial College Boat Club formed on?
12 December 1919
What school was established in 1851?
The Royal School of Mines
Who granted Imperial degree-awarding powers?
Privy Council
In which area in London is Imperial's main campus located?
South Kensington
Which centre provides electives outside of science for students?
Centre For Co-Curricular Studies
What statistic did the average Imperial graduate rank the highest in for 2014?
average starting salary
What does the abbreviation STOIC stand for?
Student Television of Imperial College
Which famous automobile designer is considered a non - academic alumni?
Nicholas Tombazis
Which society organized The Great Exhibition?
Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce
Who proposed a merger of many colleges in 1907?
Board of Education
What was Imperial's net income for the financial year that ended on 31 July 2013?
£822.0 million
In which year did Imperial merge with St Mary's Hospital Medical School?
1988
What percentage of Imperial's staff was classified as world leading in 2008?
26%
What was formed on the 1st October 2007?
Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust
What portion of females reported that they were held back by managers?
one third
What is the official name of the student's union?
Imperial College Union
What kind of University is Imperial College London?
public research university
Who discovered the first synthetic dye?
William Henry Perkin
What site did Imperial acquire in 1947?
Silwood Park
What is the maximum length of the runway gymnasts sprint down before hurdling onto a spring board?
25 meters
Only women compete in rhythmic gymnastics according to what rules?
FIG
What does AGG stand for?
Aesthetic Group Gymnastics
What is the rope made out of that the gymnists uses in their routine?
hemp or a synthetic material
Where was the FIG founded?
Liege
How long is the run way in vaulting?
25 metres (82 ft)
How are gymnasts scored?
from deductions taken from their start value
When were the technical rules for the Japanses version of men's rhythmic gymnastics formed?
1970s
What Greek word did gymnastics derive from?
γυμνός (gymnos) meaning "naked"
What year was the Olympic Games apparatus and events standardized?
1954
What does a typical pommel horse exercise consist of?
both single leg and double leg work
What is a critical skill in terms of execution in scores?
landing
Individual routines start with what phases?
build-up phase during which the gymnast jumps repeatedly to achieve height
What are the uneven bars?
two horizontal bars set at different heights
What does a higher flight phase result in?
a higher vertical ground reaction force
What was aerobic gymnastics called orginally?
Sport Aerobics
What kind of routines do general gymnastic groups perform?
synchronized, choreographed routines
What is gymnastics?
Gymnastics is a sport involving the performance of exercises requiring strength, flexibility, balance and control
What two Germans were known for creating exercises on apparauses?
Johann Friedrich GutsMuths (1759–1839) and Friedrich Ludwig Jahn (1778–1852)
When did FIG decide that scores are no longer limited to 10 points?
2006
What is the floor exercise events performed on now?
a carpeted 12m × 12m square, usually consisting of hard foam over a layer of plywood
What do athletes perform for tumbling?
an explosive series of flips and twists down a sprung tumbling track
What are mens' rhythmic gymnastics related to?
both Men's artistic gymnastics and wushu martial arts
Where did the Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg move his residence to?
Hanover
Other than for railroads and road junction, what did Hanover have that made it a major target?
production center
Which zoo is one of the best in Europe?
Hanover Zoo
What famous theatre is located in Georgs Palace?
GOP Variety theatre
What does the German spelling of Hanover have that English does not?
a double n
What does the NSDAP stand for?
Nazi party
What kind of garden is The Great Garden?
European baroque garden
Who designed the Gehry Tower?
Frank O. Gehry
What is Hanover a German capital for?
marksmen
What is a Schnellweg?
expressway
What ended in the year 1837?
the personal union of the United Kingdom and Hanover
What plan was implemented in September 1941?
Action Lauterbacher
Where was Hanover originally founded?
east bank of the River Leine
Who imposed the Convention of Artlenburg?
Napoleon
What is the Berggarten?
European botanical garden
What does VWN stand for?
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles Transporter
How many theaters approximately are located in Hanover?
40
Who does the nicname "Die Roten" belong to?
Hannover 96
What is Hanover's population?
518,000
Where are the large Martkirche located?
Old Town
What is the Münzkabinett der TUI-AG?
A cabinet of coins
What system of the body is related to emotion's physiology?
nervous
What is the name of the theory Plutchik created?
wheel of emotions
What was the name of the book that Darwin wrote on emotions?
The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals
In this theory, what action evokes an emotion?
stimulus
Who argued that emotions arise from cognitive intentionality?
Richard Lazarus
What book by Prinz defended the perceptual theory?
Gut Reactions
What discipline examines the role emotions play in culture?
sociology
Along with anger, pride and happiness, what is an example of an emotional label?
fear
Along with William James, who was an influential 19th century theorist?
Carl Lange
Along with psychology, neuroscience, endocrinology, medicine, history and sociology, what field has engaged in research on emotion?
computer science
What are emotional episodes defined in contrast to?
emotional dispositions
What theory sees an emotional episode as consisting of components?
psychological construction
Who argued that physiological responses were insufficient to explain emotional experiences?
Walter Bradford Cannon
Who developed a situated perspective on emotion along with Andrea Scarantino?
Paul E. Griffiths
When did Broca publish his pioneering work?
1878
Along with the philosophies of music and art, what field of philosophy studies emotions?
ethics
Who discussed the idea of a collective effervescence?
Emilé Durkheim
What theory was developed by Arnold?
the appraisal theory of emotions
When did the word emotion enter the English language?
1579
What is the thalamus a part of?
the diencephalon
Who wrote The Passions, Emotions and the Meaning of Life?
Robert C. Solomon
Who researched the role of emotional phenotype temperaments on social connectedness?
Kurt Kortschal
Along with mood, temperament, disposition and motivation, what is emotion often tied to?
personality
Who described the concept of a continuum of intensity?
Michael C. Graham
Who has argued that emotions are discrete?
Paul Ekman
What school of thought saw emotion as an impediment to virtue?
stoic
Who wrote that exciting facts lead to emotions?
William James
What historical school claims that sentiments and meta-emotions can be learned?
constructivist
Whose work did the theory of Stanley Schachter build on?
Gregorio Marañón
In what decade did sociologists focus on the social relevance of emotion?
1990s
What is the term for the strategies used by people to influence their emotional experiences?
Emotion regulation
What system was examined to develop the neurobiological explanation of human emotion?
limbic
What discipline studies the role of emotions in neural mechanisms?
Human sciences
Who came up with the interaction ritual theory?
Randall Collins
Of what discipline is affective computing a branch?
computer science
Along with subjective experience, cognitive processes, expressive behavior and psychophysiological changes, what is another notable emotional component?
instrumental behavior
What model of emotion was developed by Scherer?
components processing model
What do psychologists use to visually map emotional experiences?
multidimensional scaling
What technology has allowed for research into the earlier-evolved parts of the brain?
neuroimaging
Along with Cropanzano, who developed a communication-based theory of emotional experience?
Howard M. Weiss
What parts of reptiles respond to sensory cues?
motor centers
What model described the opposite of approach as moving away?
Direction Model
In what economics sub-field are emotions discussed?
microeconomics
What emotion do many cultures discourage in women?
anger
How many Copa del Rey trophies has Barcelona won?
27
On what day did the stadium crowd jeer the Royal March in protest against Primo de Rivera's dictatorship?
14 June 1925
When did Johan Cruyff join Barcelona?
The 1973–74 season
In what year did Barcelona win a Copa del Rey and La Liga double?
1998
How many players did Barcelona list on the day their transfer ban ended?
77
What team is dominate in won games in La Liga?
Barcelona
Besides Barcelona and Real Madrid, what other team has remained in the Primera Division?
Athletic Bilbao
How many UEFA Champions League wins does Barcelona have?
five
Who was murdered on 6 August, 1936?
Josep Sunyol
How many consecutive La Liga titles did Barcelona win from 1991-94?
four
Under whose direction was there disappointment?
Gaspart
How many times did Barcelona win the Copa del Rey?
25
When did Tito Vilanova become manager of FC Barcelona?
2012
To whom did Barcelona appeal to lift the transfer bad?
Court of Arbitration for Sport
How many registered fan clubs does Barcelona have worldwide?
1,335
What team is Barcelona's local rival?
Espanyol
What royal symbol appears on the club's crest?
Crown of Aragon
What was the number of team Barcelona supporters by 1922?
20,000
When did the Italians bomb Barcelona?
16 March 1938
How much was the signing payment for Diego Maradona?
£5 million
When was Barcelona founded?
1899
In what year did Barcelona win its first trophy? 
1902
What team won the first match in the 1943 Copa del Generalissimo?
Barcelona
What team was dominate in the 1960s in La Liga?
Real Madrid
What political group wanted Nunez to resign the presidency?
Boixos Nois
How did Barcelona finish the 2006-07 season?
without trophies
What competition did Barcelona win because of goals by Messi and Fabregas?
UEFA Super Cup
When FIFA ban Barcelona from buying players?
April 2014
Who did Barcelona beat to win the 2015 UEFA Super Cup?
Sevilla FC
Where did Barcelona defeat Real Madrid for a trophy win in 2005-06?
Santiago Bernabéu Stadium
What caused the suppression of regional cultures?
dictatorships
Who was elected as president of the Barcelona club in 2010?
Sandro Rosell
When did Espanyol  offer a counter-petition against autonomy?
1918
What is Lionel Messi's goal total in all competitions?
474
What team has won the treble competitions  twice?
Barcelona
What corporate sponsorship did Barcelona agree to in 2006? 
UNICEF
What is the game between the rivals Barcelona and Real Madrid called?
El Clásico
Why did the stadium need to be redesigned in 1980?
meet UEFA criteria
How was Espanyol viewed as being toward Spanish authority by the people of Barcelona?
compliance
When were the blue and red colors worn for a game by Barcelona?
1900
How many goals did Laszlo Kubala score in 256 matches?
196
Which sports team has the world's largest social media following?
Barcelona
How many times did Barcelona win the Pyrenees Cup?
four
Who was the first elected president of the Barcelona club?
Josep Lluís Núñez
What team did favorite play Luis Figo leave Barcelona to join?
Real Madrid
Who returned to Barcelona as head coach?
Luis Enrique
What is the nickname for a Barcelona supporter?
culé
In 1950 what player was successful for Real Madrid?
Alfredo di Stéfano
What did Forbes say Barcelona was worth in 2010?
€752 million
When did Barcelona become the first Spanish team to win the treble competitions?
2009
When was Everton admitted as a member of the Premier League?
1992
When was the Tower constructed?
1787
What is the name of the theme song that players walk out to on Everton matchdays?
Johnny Todd
How many seasons out of the last 114 has Everton been in England's top tier?
111
When was the Everton club founded?
1878
In what season did Everton win their fourth League title?
1931–32
When did the Everton club board fire Smith?
2002
When did Everton FC launch their new crest?
2013
In which park did Everton FC originally play?
Stanley
How many seats did the proposal for the new Everton stadium feature in 2000?
55,000
What place did Everton FC rank in highest average attendance in the Premier League in the 2008-09 season?
eighth
Who is the current manager of the Everton Football Club?
Roberto Martínez
In what year did Everton's second successful era begin?
1961
Where did a group of fans demand that Everton remain within the city boundaries of?
Liverpool
How many travelling fans did Everton bring with them to Benefica in 2009?
7,000
Who holds a majority of the shares in the Everton FC?
the board of directors
Who is the Everton Football Club's biggest rivals?
Liverpool
What player holds the Everton Football Club record for most appearances?
Neville Southall
How many fans were in attendance during Everton's match against Liverpool on September 18, 1948?
78,299
What was the name of Everton's professional basketball team?
Tigers
What is the name of the Chilean team that has ties to the Everton FC?
Everton de Viña del Mar
What year did the Everton FC release their UK pop song "The Boys in Blue"?
1984
Who temporarily replaced Joe Royle as club captain after he resigned?
Dave Watson
What year did the Everton Football Club "go blue"?
1901
What is the name of the English language's earliest form?
Old English
Along with West Saxon, Northumbrian and Mercian, what was one of the four main dialects of Old English?
Kentish
From what language did Old English borrow some words?
Latin
What type of gender did Old English nouns possess?
grammatical
When the Latin alphabet was introduced to Old English, what letter was the same as v?
u
What is regarded as the greatest literary work in Old English?
Beowulf
To what language group does Old English belong?
West Germanic
Who was known by the nickname "the Grammarian"?
Ælfric of Eynsham
For about how many years was Old English used?
700
From what Old English dialect is the standard for of Modern English descended?
Mercian
What language influenced Old English as a result of the Viking invasions?
Danish
What trait does Old English possess that Modern English lacks?
morphological diversity
What language had the greatest influence on English?
Old Norse
Along with the present, what was a verb tense in Old English?
past
What language family does Old English belong to?
West Germanic
What is an important Old English historical record?
the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle
What is another name for Anglo-Frisian?
North Sea Germanic
What treatise was written by Pope Gregory?
Pastoral Care
Along with Northumbria, what kingdom was invaded by the Vikings?
Mercia
During what century did Cnut rule?
11th
What form of c, when written, contains a dot over the letter?
palatal
What modern religion sometimes uses Old English?
Neo-Paganism
What type of carrier is the largest?
fleet carrier
What type of aircraft carrier was the USS Bogue?
Escort
When did Russia's United Shipbuilding Corporation expect to begin design work for a new carrier?
2016
What are typically regarded as "runways at sea"?
aircraft carriers
When did conventional carriers start recovering aircraft at an angle to port of the axial line of the ship?
early 1950s
Where are ski-jump ramps located on aircraft carriers?
the forward end of the flight deck
What type of flight decks are aircraft carriers equipped with?
full-length
In what year was the advent of heavier-than-air fixed-wing aircraft?
1903
Which ship was originally known as being the capital ship of the fleet?
the battleship
Who is in the process of procuring two Canbera-class LHD's?
The Royal Australian Navy
What is the British Navy constructing to replace their three Invincible-class carriers?
two new larger STOVL aircraft carriers, the Queen Elizabeth class
Why do the constraints of constructing a flight deck affect the role of a carrier?
they influence the weight, type, and configuration of the aircraft that may be launched
Why do almost all carriers using conventional aircraft have arrested-recovery systems?
conventional aircraft cannot decelerate on their own
What are 3 key personnel involved in the flight deck?
the shooters, the handler, and the air boss
What is the disadvantage of the ski-jump?
the penalty it exacts on aircraft size, payload, and fuel load
Why did China purchase the STOBAR carrier Liaoning in 1998?
on the pretext of use as a floating casino
Who started construction of a 40,000-tonne Vikrant-class carrier in 2009?
India
What were carriers used for in the early 20th century?
to deploy balloons
What is the definition of an "aircraft carrier"?
There is no single definition
What dramatically changed naval combat in World War II?
The aircraft carrier
What develpment produced the first large fleet ships?
flattop vessels
What does EMALS stand for?
Electromagnetic Aircraft Launch System
What was the August 2013 launching ceremony in Yokohama held for?
Japan's largest military ship since World War II
What will some of the current US fleet of Nimitz-class carriers be replaced with?
the ten-ship Gerald R. Ford class
What type of aircraft have no need to decelerate?
VTOL-capable or helicopters
What feature was pioneered on the HMS Hermes in 1923?
an island
What is the name of the 42,000 tonne nuclear-powered carrier commissioned in 2001?
Charles de Gaulle
How many new carriers per year did the House Armed Services Seapower subcommittee recommend in 7/24/07?
one every four years
Why have aircraft carriers increased in size since World War II?
to accommodate a steady increase in aircraft size
What does LSO stand for?
landing signal officer
What is a more fuel efficient way for STOVL aircraft to take off rather than vertically?
using the ramp and a running start
What class carrier is the Sao Paulo?
Clemenceau
What type of carrier is Admiral Flota Sovetskovo Soyuza Kuznetsov?
STOBAR
Which class of aircraft carriers is being constructed to replace the Invincible-class carriers?
Queen Elizabeth
When did two whisleblowers allege that Boutris  attempted to ground Southwest Airlines?
2007
When did the aftermath of the Southwest Airlines inspection scandal happen?
July 22, 2008
What epidemic did the FAA have to handle in the 1960s?
hijacking
When did the CAA begin to exptend it's ATC responsibilities?
World War II
When did the agency acheive a semi-automated air traffic control system?
mid-1970s
When was the Air Commerce Act passed?
May 20, 1926
When did the Grand-Canyon mid-air collision happen?
1956
When did the FAA decide to expand passengers use of portable elctronic devices during all phases of flight?
October 31, 2013
When did the US DOT combine major federal responsibilities for air and surface transport?
1967
What was the Areonautics Branch renamed to?
Bureau of Air Commerce
When did the FAA change it's long-standing approach to air traffic control candidates?
2014
What retired NASA Office of inspector general is outspoken about the FAA?
Joseph Gutheinz
In what year did Blackpool and Blackburn become independent unitary authorities?
1998
When did the administrative boundaries for the Duchy of Lancaster change?
1970s
How many state grammar schools are in Lancashire?
four
What years did the Lancashire League competition run from?
1895 to 1970
Where was the first open competition for brass bands held?
Manchester
What are the biggest cities in Lancashire?
Manchester and Liverpool
When was Liverpool and Manchester removed from Lancashire boundaries?
1974
When was the administrative county of Lancashire created?
1889
When did the county become more urbanised?
20th century
What is most of the lowland in the county devoted to?
dairy farming and cheesemaking
What does the Duchy administer within the County Palatine?
bona vacantia
What does the Lancashire economy rely on?
the M6 motorway
Where are the major settlements in the ceremonial county located?
Fylde coast
Where was pop star Frankie Vaughan from?
Liverpool
Who was "The Ballad of Chevy Chase" composed by?
Richard Sheale
When was Lancashire established?
1182
How many people lived in Lancashire in 1971?
5,129,416
Who was a local pioneer of folk song collection?
James Orchard Halliwell
What is the county flower of Lancaster?
The Red Rose of Lancaster
In what year was Hugh Wood born?
1932
What era was 250 million to 247 million years ago?
Early Triassic
What event produced further adaptations during  the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods?
climatic changes
What event sets the boundary for the Triassic?
Permian–Triassic extinction
What is the span of the Late Cretaceous period?
100 million to 65 million years
What is uncertain about the Cretaceous?
climate
What was the span of the Late Triassic?
237 million to 200 million years
What is the span of the Early Cretaceous?
145 million to 100 million years
What caused the sea to rise during the Jurassic?
increase in seafloor
What is the span of years for the Early Jurassic?
200 million years to 175 million
At what time was tectonic formation mild?
Mesozoic
What type of animals took longer to reestablish?
specialized animals
At what point did the Mesozoic era begin?
Permian–Triassic extinction
What is the span of years of the Middle Triassic?
247 million to 237 million
How many years did the Late Jurassic cover?
163 million to 145 million
What was the general rainfall in the Triassic?
dry
What was the dominant plant species of the Mesozoic?
gymnosperms
In what decade was digital telephony transmission made possible?
the 1980s
What controls the conferencing while its active on the signaling plane?
The MC
What technology has become more widely available and affordable?
High speed Internet connectivity
Videophone calls are different from videoconferencing in what way?
serve individuals, not groups
In what decade did developers extend the capabilities of videoconferencing to more devices?
the 2010s
What can videoconferencing offer students?
participating in two-way communication forums
What company introduced the first device to help deaf people communicate through telecommunications?
AT&T
In what industry has videoconferencing become useful?
film
What is a video-conference also known as?
videoteleconference
What is one area where teleconferencing could not be used?
telemedicine
What year did one the first community service usages of videoconferencing take place?
1992
What enables videoconferencing to connect three or more remote points?
Multipoint Control Unit (MCU)
In what one way can videoconferencing help a person?
money savings
In what decade was Internet video-conferencing made possible?
1990s
What is the software that performs audio and/or video compression?
a codec (coder/decoder)
What is a common use of conferencing technology?
deaf Video Relay Service
What is one way that videoconferencing is useful?
real-time telemedicine
In what European country has VRS services become well developed?
Sweden
What year was the first HD video conferencing system displayed?
2005
What do systems with no MCU use in order to perform multipoint conferencing?
a standards-based H.323 technique
Who has the world's largest administrative judicial system?
U.S.
What does duel dating use to show the date?
two consecutive years
Who revised the Julian calendar?
Pope Gregory XIII
What ruler decreed the change to the Gregorian calendar?
Philip II of Spain
When did the last country to adopt the Gregorian calendar start using it?
1923
What was the percentsge of correction from the Julian calendar to the new Gregorian calendar?
0.002%
What kind of calendar is the Gregorian calendar?
solar
When was Easter Sunday celebrated after the equinox?
15th day
What did Lilius first propose to correct in the calendar?
length of the year
On what date did most European countries set the start of the new year?
1 January
Attempting to use Gregorian dates for earlier events  on the Julian calendar should be used with what action?
caution
Why would a knuckle -space count be used to determine months?
language-independent
How many parts did the Gregorian calendar reform have?
two parts
What calendar did Turkey use before 1917 for general purposes?
lunar Islamic
How many days do you subtract to convert days from a calendar?
subtract one day
What is the difference in time between the calendars?
10 minutes 48 seconds
When did the Council of Trent agree to the corrected calendar?
1563
When were the rights to publish the calendar granted?
3 April 1582
What year did the Roman Republic use for dates?
consular year
What other system of calculations are inherent in the Gregorian calendar?
system of weeks
Who thought that the seasonal drift in the date of Easter unacceptable?
Roman Catholic Church
Who was the architect of the Gregorian calendar?
Christopher Clavius
What designation was added to British dates to differentiate them from countries not using the new calendar? 
"Old Style" (OS) and "New Style"
The Gregorian calendar is an improvement over what other calendar?
Julian
What Microsoft executive was in charge of 360 development?
J Allard
The Xbox 360 Pro included what size hard drive storage?
20 GB
How many titles did the 360 have at launch in North America?
14 games
What 3 video formats did the 360 support natively at launch?
Windows Media Video (WMV) format (including high-definition and PlaysForSure videos), as well as H.264 and MPEG-4
What was the name of the non-subscription Xbox online gaming service?
Xbox Live Silver
What is the name of the 360's online service?
Xbox Live
What was the software attach rate in the US for the 360 by March of 2008?
7.5 games per console in the US
What hardware defect code plagued the 360?
"General Hardware Failure" error
What online source called the 360 the 6th greatest console of all time in 2009?
IGN
What problem hurt Nintendo's Wii console?
collapse of third-party software support in its later years
What was the original user interface for the 360 called?
Xbox 360 Dashboard
What was a classic title originally offered by the Xbox Live Arcade?
Ms. Pac-Man
At what conventions did Microsoft announce IPTV support through the 360?
Consumer Electronics Shows
What XBox Live service allows users to buy games and downloadable content?
Xbox Live Marketplace
What was the initial launch window of the 360 console?
2005–2006
What sales figure was the 360 the first console of its generation to surpass?
10 million
Besides online gaming and media distribution, what other feature made the 360 influential, according to TechRadar?
game achievement feature
How did Microsoft describe Kinect?
a "controller-free gaming and entertainment experience"
How did Microsoft modify the architecture of the 360 to reduce failure rates?
a reduction in the number, size, and placement of components
What was the name of the 360's video store service?
Xbox Video Marketplace
How did the original Xbox fare in Japan in general?
sold poorly
How many major hardware revisions has the 360 had?
Two
How many launch titles did the 360 have in Japan?
Six
What PC operating system is required to stream content to a 360?
Windows XP with Service pack 2 or higher
What extra features do Xbox Live Gold members get?
integrated online game playing capabilities outside of third-party subscriptions
What hardware device was merged with the video marketplace?
the Zune
When did wars between Britain and France in North America start?
1689
What was the biggest war the US got involved with in the early 19th century?
the War of 1812
Who was the Secretary of War who modernized the US military at the beginning of the 20th century?
Elihu Root
When World War I started, what was the official US position?
neutral
The Vietnam War was an element of what US diplomatic policy?
Containment
How many nations were against Iraq in the US-led coalition?
34
In what African country did US troops participate in peacekeeping operations?
Somalia
When did the US send troops to the Philippines to battle terrorists?
January 2002
What battle ended a British invasion from Canada in the Revolutionary War?
Saratoga
What was the US policy when France declared war on England in 1793?
to remain neutral
What treaty ceded territory to the US extending west to the Mississippi River?
Treaty of Paris
What dividing line separated slave states from free states?
the Mason–Dixon line
Where did the American army fight the Spanish in the Spanish American War?
Cuba
When was the Philippine-American War fought?
1899–1902
How many battleships did the US Navy lose at Pearl Harbor?
eight
What country supplied troops to North Korea during the Korean War?
the People's Republic of China
When did North Korean forces initiate attacks on US and UN forces in the Korean war?
1950
What acronym was given to South Vietnamese troops?
RVN
What two northern Vietnamese cities did the US avoid bombing at the outset of the war?
Hanoi and Haiphong
When did fighting between Palestinians and the Lebanese begin?
1983
What is the main reason the US-led coalition won a decisive victory in the Persian Gulf War?
US technological superiority
How long did ground combat operations last in the Persian Gulf War?
100 hours
What term is given to the attempt by the US and her allies to fight global terrorist groups?
The War on Terrorism
What demand did the US make before invading Iraq in 2003?
that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein leave Iraq
What declaration established a no-fly zone over Libya?
United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973
What was the biggest problem General Washington faced?
logistics
Where was the Barbary Coast?
modern day Libya
What was the Confederate overall strategy to win the Civil War?
getting Britain and France to intervene
When in the 19th century was the US navy modernized?
the 1880s
What early 20th century conflict sent tens of thousands of refugees to the US?
The Mexican Revolution
What general sentiment was the result of losses in World War I?
isolationism
How many Americans served in the military in World War II?
Over 16 million
The policy of containment in Asia was aimed at what ideology?
Communism
When did Britain declare martial law in a North American colony?
1774
What quality made the US only a minor military power after the Revolutionary War?
having only a modest army
What two tribes particularly resisted being confined to reservations?
the Sioux and Comanche
What naval officer developed new doctrines for gunnery at the turn of the 20th Century?
Rear Admiral Bradley A. Fiske
What was the name given to American soldiers in Europe in 1918?
doughboys
What was the American priority in mobilization prior to entering World War II?
air power
When was the Vietnam War fought?
between 1959 and 1975
What conflict was supposed to have provided Iraqi forces with battle experience?
8 years of war with Iran
What organization captured significant segments of Iraq and Syria?
ISIL
Where was the band Blue Cheer from?
San Francisco
The band Rush is what nationality?
Canadian
What is the title of Bon Jovi's third lp?
Slippery When Wet
What Aerosmith ballad debuted at number one on the charts?
"I Don't Want to Miss a Thing"
What are two examples of glam metal bands?
Bon Jovi and Def Leppard
What genre laid the roots for hard rock?
electric blues
What was the landmark hard rock album recorded by the Rolling Stones in 1972?
Exile on Main St.
Who was the original lead singer of AC/DC who died?
Bon Scott
Guns N Roses released both Use Your Illusion albums in what year?
1991
When did the band The Darkness break up?
2006
Who were three Chicago blues players who influenced hard rock?
Elmore James, Muddy Waters, and Howlin' Wolf
When did Free break up?
1973
What sub-genre of hard rock does Def Leppard belong to?
the New Wave of British Heavy Metal
What was the title of Nirvana's 1991 album?
Nevermind
When did the Foo Fighters album In Your Honor come out?
2005
What instrument is usually at the center of a hard rock sound?
The electric guitar
Who was the guitarist for the band Cream?
Eric Clapton
Who recorded the album School's Out?
Alice Cooper
What was the title of Deep Purple's 1980s reunion album?
Perfect Strangers
What was Van Halen's last album with Sammy Hagar?
Balance
By the late 60s, what term was synonymous with hard rock?
heavy metal
Led Zeppelin's first two albums both came out in what year?
1969
What two genres made inroads on hard rock in the 1970s?
disco in the US and punk rock in the UK
How many copies did Whitesnake's 1987 self title album sell?
17 million
What hard rock supergroup contained members of Soundgarden and Rage Against the Machine?
Audioslave
what is the name of the region east of the Rocky Mountains?
"Great Plains
what type of land is much of the great plans?
open range
who was the spanish conquistador who had encounters with europeans and native americans?
Francisco Vázquez de Coronado
what is the name of the line that divides the great plains?
The 100th meridian
after about what year did railroads bring hunters to the great plains?
1870
how much of the population have the rural plains lost since 1920? 
a third
who usually organized shared meals and potluck events?
Women
around when did the great plains become productive for crop growing
1950s
what is the great plains?
broad expanse of flat land
who is the North American Environmental Atlas made by?
Commission for Environmental Cooperation
what mainly opened the great plains for settlement?
railroads
about how long ago did the climate become favorable?
about 25 million years ago
when did the US pass the Homestead ACt?
1862
What technology is used by night-vision devices?
active near-infrared illumination
At what wavelength does the human eye become significantly less sensitive to light?
700 nm
What is the term for the property that describes how a surface's thermal emissions deviate from the ideal of a black body?
emissivity
What is the technique that analyzes the constituent bonds of molecules to identify them?
Infrared vibrational spectroscopy
What is used in infrared photography to capture the near-infrared spectrum?
infrared filters
What technique is used in art to examine underlying layers of a painting without damaging it?
Infrared reflectography
Who discovered infrared radiation?
William Herschel
What is a commonly used term for infrared radiation?
heat radiation
What is another term for infrared homing?
Infrared tracking
Along with Cirrus, what types of clouds are cold and high?
Cumulonimbus
What limits the sensitivity of infrared telescopes on Earth?
water vapor in the atmosphere
What is the nearest wavelength to the radiation that a human eye can see?
Near-infrared
What is the term for transit energy flowing as a result of differences in temperature?
Heat
What is the range of the electromagnetic spectrum in micrometers?
0.9–14
What irradiates clouds of gas in the galaxy and makes them glow?
imbedded stars
What sort of equipment uses the infrared spectrum in the absence of sufficient visible light?
night vision
What is the IrDA?
the Infrared Data Association
What letter represents the index of refraction?
n
What is the name of the technique used in scanners to minimize the effects of dust and scratches?
Infrared cleaning
Along with the surface of the Earth, what objects absorb radiation from the sun?
clouds
What term refers to  the variety and variability of life on Earth?
Biodiversity
Who is the author of the biodiversity research paper?
Bruce A. Wilcox
What model correlates much better than the hyperbolic model?
the Phanerozoic
What has some responsibility for offering variety in what we eat?
Interspecific crop diversity
What percentage of biodiversity has the planet lost since 1970
52%
In which year was the study published that found biodiversity and genetic diversity are codependent?
2007
What may unintentionally injure a species that depends on the species it replaces?
an introduced species
What plays a vital role in harbouring floral and faunal species?
The forests
What global agreement gives sovereign national rights over biological resources?
the Convention on Biological Diversity
What can typically cause mass extinctions?
Rapid environmental changes
Which era included a rapid growth period?
the Cambrian explosion
Who describes the "Evil Quartet"?
Jared Diamond
What can threaten endemic species with extinction?
genetic pollution
What is the estimate age of the Earth?
about 4.54 billion years old
What suggests that the last few million years featured the greatest biodiversity in history?
The fossil record
What are two types of Agricultural diversity?
‘planned’ diversity or ‘associated’ diversity
What is becoming an international political issue?
Biodiversity's relevance to human health
How many mass extinctions have happened since Life began on Earth?
five major mass extinctions
What century started the increase of species invasions?
1900s
How many plant species does Brazil's Atlantic Forest contain?
20,000 plant species
What limits the amount of life that can live at once on Earth?
global carrying capacity
What was the increase in population from 1950 to 2011?
world population increased from 2.5 billion to 7 billion
What farms use biologically destructive pesticides
monoculture farms
What types of parks receive special protection against damage or degradation?
National park and nature reserve
Who is the German Federal Environment Minister?
Sigmar Gabriel
What is systematically related to the numbers of species?
Habitat size
What animal unintentionally invaded the US waterways?
the zebra mussel
What type of science is firmly fixated on the visible world?
Contemporary biodiversity physics
What term describes the number and variety of plants, animals and other organisms in existence?
biodiversity
Which scientist first used the term biological diversity?
Raymond F. Dasmann
What provides critical support for drug discovery and the availability of medicinal resources?
Biodiversity
What popularized the use of conventional hybridization to increase yield?
the Green Revolution
What is the ASCII based on?
English alphabet
Why was the code patterned so that most codes were together?
for ease of identification
ASCII was incorporated into what other character set?
Unicode
What casued the automatic paper tape reader to stop?
a Control-S
What are glass TTYs also known as?
CRTs or terminals
What was created to solve the problem for ANSI C?
C trigraphs
What was ASCII based on?
teleprinter encoding systems
When was ASCII first commercially used?
1963
What does the "line feed" function do?
causes a printer to advance its paper
What did some software do to the ASCII characters?
assigned special meanings
What do computers attached to the ARPANET use for line endings?
CR-LF
When was ISO/IEC 646 published?
1972
What did most early home computers develop?
their own 8-bit character sets
Who surpassed ASCII?
UTF-8
What happened after they decided agasint shifting?
ASCII required at least a seven-bit code
What was the "escape" character originally intended for?
to allow sending other control characters as literals instead of invoking their meaning
What does EOF stand for?
end-of-file
What was ASCII developed from? 
telegraphic codes
Why did the committee consider a 8 bit code?
eight bits (octets) would allow two four-bit patterns to efficiently encode two digits with binary-coded decimal
What was ASCII published as and when?
ASA X3.4-1963
What is a retified versionof ASCII?
ISO/IEC 646
What was the most influential device that interpretated the characters?
Teletype Model 33 ASR
Why were problems created when transferring files between systems?
The inherent ambiguity of many control characters, combined with their historical usage
When was the first typewritter with a shift key created?
1878
What is the official name of code 127?
delete
Why is adding two characters at the ned of a line problemsome? 
introduces unnecessary complexity and questions as to how to interpret each character when encountered alone
What is the first step in the human digestive system?
the action of mastication (chewing)
What is the practive of coprophagia behaviours?
eating specialised faeces in order to re-digest food
What are the two types of digestion?
internal and external digestion
What elements can transfer to plant cells?
Agrobacterium Ti or Ri plasmids
Where are teeth found?
in the jaws (or mouths)
What is the fourth and final stomach compartment in ruminants?
The abomasum
What does a earthworms digestive systme consist of?
a mouth, pharynx, esophagus, crop, gizzard, and intestine.
Where does the digestions of some fats start?
in the mouth
What is digestion?
the breakdown of large insoluble food molecules into small water-soluble food molecules so that they can be absorbed into the watery blood plasma
What are three digestions phases?
the cephalic phase , gastric phase, and intestinal phase
What happens in a chennel transupport system? 
several proteins form a contiguous channel traversing the inner and outer membranes of the bacteria
What other method does Gram-negative bacters use to release material?
the formation of outer membrane vesicles
What muscle movements are used for digestion?
swallowing and peristalsis
Where does digestion begin?
in the mouth with the secretion of saliva and its digestive enzymes
What is lactase?
an enzyme that breaks down the disaccharide lactose to its component parts
What is the resulting thick liquid called?
chyme
What is the firs phase in preparation for digestion  in mammals?
the cephalic phase
Where does protein digestion occur?
in the stomach and duodenum
What tool did Hoover use to find bootleggers?
wiretapping
Which group broke into an FBI office in Media, Pennsylvania?
Citizens' Commission to Investigate the FBI
Did the FBI reassign agents from counter-intelligence to violent crime?
the FBI reassigned more than 300 agents from foreign counter-intelligence duties to violent crime
What agencies were to blame for 9/11?
FBI and Central Intelligence Agency
Where is the CJIS located?
Clarksburg, West Virginia
Who is responsible for day-to-day FBI operations?
The FBI director
What compiles data from around 17,000 law enforcement agencies?
The Uniform Crime Reports
What percentage of COINTELPRO resources were targeted at FBI labeled subversive groups?
85%
What is the FBI comparable to?
British MI5 and the Russian FSB
What was the bureau's first task?
visiting and making surveys of the houses of prostitution
When did the FBI become concerned about Civil Rights?
1950s and 1960s
When did the FBI begin investigating espionage?
1940s
When did a committee oppose the FBI's organized crime informant program?
In 2003
When did the FBI increase it's counter-terrorism role?
Between 1993 and 1996
What FBI agent was killed during attacks on the World Trade Center?
Leonard W. Hatton Jr
When did the Washington Post publish excerpts from the book Spying Blind?
July 8, 2007
What increased the powers of the FBI?
USA PATRIOT Act
When did the FBI lab first appear?
1974
When did the FBI begin the Trilogy project?
2000
What gun are FBI special agents issued?
Glock Model 22 pistol or a Glock 23 in .40 S&W caliber
What group of people may apply to join the FBI after age 37?
preference-eligible veterans
Did the FBI keep files on Elvis Presley?
including celebrities such as Elvis Presley
Who tipped of Bulger?
his former FBI handler
What was Virgil Griffith focused on?
computation and neural-systems
When did the FBI announce Robert Hanssen's arrest?
20 February 2001
What agency is the domestic intelligence and security service for the US?
FBI
Who was Director from 1924 to 1972?
J. Edgar Hoover
What kind of work was the FBI focused on?
domestic
When did the Bureau begin compiling a custodial detention list?
1939
What was the Top Hoodlum Program a response to?
organized crime
What spurred the FBIs technological upgrade?
CALEA
What precision did the FBI believe they could reach with chemical signatures?
single box of bullets
What is the FBI's main tool against organized crime?
RICO
When does the FBI work with the US Coast Guard and US Customs and Board Protection?
seaport and airport security
Where are agents sent to become FBI Special Agents?
The FBI Academy
Did the FBI investigate Martin Luther King Jr.?
frequently
What is the goal of the NIBRS?
address limitations inherent in UCR data
What Puerto Rican leader did the FBI spy on?
Pedro Albizu Campos
What office contains the FBI's administrative offices?
Office of the Director
Where is the FBI located?
J. Edgar Hoover Building in Washington, D.C.,
What was the electronic eavesdropping system used by the FBI during the Clinton presidency?
Carnivore
Who appoints FBI directors?
President of the United States
When did the FBI first appear in popular media?
1930s
How many times did FBI agents first their weapons from 1993 to 2011?
289
When did Puerto Rican Nationalist Filiberto Ojeda Ríos die?
2005
Adolescene is viewed as what?
a transitional period between childhood and adulthood
Puberty causes what to happen in boys?
a deeper voice and larger adam's apple
How do a person's heart and lungs change during puberty?
increase in both size and capacity
Is a person's brain fully developed by the time they reach puberty?
not
Which neuromodulator is involved in regulation of mood and behavior?
Serotonin
Deductive reasoning leads to the development of what type of thinking?
hypothetical
Are sexual actvity and risky behaviors more likely in boys that mature early or later?
early
How is wisdom defined?
capacity for insight and judgment that is developed through experience
How is adolescence defined biologically?
the physical transition marked by the onset of puberty and the termination of physical growth
Who founded the University of California, Berkeley's Institude of Human Development?
Jean Macfarlane
What is a male's major landmark of puberty?
first ejaculation
How can the ideal self be described in terms of the adolescent?
who the adolescent wishes to be
What term is the beginning of menstruation given?
Menarche
What activity often results in a boy's first ejaculation?
masturbation
At what stage do parents see their children as equals?
early adolescence
Which part of the brain is involved in decision making and cognitive control?
prefrontal cortex
What is one area in which peer groups can have positive influences on an individual?
academic motivation and performance
What view towards cognitive development during adolescence did Piaget take?
constructivist
Casual sexual encounters are often referred to as what?
hookups
What is the term used to describe thinking about thinking itself?
metacognition
What questionaire has been used to measure the age in which adolescents should be able to engage in autonomous behaviors?
teen timetable
What is an example of a poor birth control method?
withdrawal
Does research favor or reject the hypothesis that adolescents and adults think about risk similarly but hold different values and therefore come to different conclusions?
favor
When does the search for identity begin for most individuals?
adolescent years
Identity achievement rarely occurs before what age?
18
Which theorist argued that not everyone fully achieves identity?
Erik Erikson
Which term is defined as one's thoughts and feelings about one's self-concept and identity?
Self-esteem
At what age does awareness of one's sexual orientation occur on average?
10
Are adolescents with authoritative parents more or less likely to complete secondary education by age 22?
more
Are modern day teenagers exposed to more or less media than other generations?
more
What is the current divorce rate?
about 50%
What are a few examples of social and religious transition ceremonies?
Confirmation, Bar and Bat Mitzvahs, Quinceañeras, sweet sixteens, cotillions, and débutante balls
Do romantic relationships tend to increase or decrease throughout adolescence?
increase
How is culture defined?
symbolic and behavioral inheritance received from the past that provides a community framework for what is valued
How do adolescents use online technology?
experiment with emerging identities and to broaden their peer groups
What percentage of sexually active teenagers will contract an STI?
One in four
In what year was the Convention on the Rights of the Child created?
1989
In developing countries, is it common for children to attend fewer or greater years of formal schooling?
fewer
What word refers to the first ejactulation of a male?
semenarche
Which of the Five-Factor Model dimensions does not demonstrate an association with drinking motives?
Openness
According to research findings, does Internet use have a positive or negative effect on teen physical health?
negative
What is the most commonly abused substance during adolescent years in the U.S.?
alcohol
During what ages do reasons for alcohol consumption between males and females begin to diverge?
14–15
From which language does the word "adolescence" originate?
Latin
In recent years, has the amount of social networking sites available to the public increased or decreased?
greatly increased
Are girls reaching sexual maturation early more or less likely to develop eating disorers?
more likely
Is change in bodily distribution of fat and muscle the same or different between males and females during puberty?
different
What is a secondary sex characteristic change?
every change that is not directly related to sexual reproduction
Are children or adolescents more likely to question assertions and less likely to accept facts?
adolescents
Who was the first president of the American Psychological Association?
G. Stanley Hall
Do children or adolescents define themselves based on values, thoughts, and opinions?
adolescents
Which adolescent ethninticy is most often studied?
white
What has the largest affect over one's social development?
relationships
Does communication with peers increase or decrease during adolescence?
increases
Did adolescents report more sexual or social events to researchers?
social events
What are the three main types of autonomy?
emotional independence, behavioral autonomy, and cognitive autonomy
Do American teenagers spend more or less time in shool than adolescents in other countires?
less
Is teenage alcohol drug use at al all-time high or low?
low
Are motives behind teen alcohol use varied or uniform across different cultures?
uniform
The transition from child-to-adulthood can be broadly defined as what?
adolescence
Is adolescence usually accompanied by increased parental supervision or increased independence?
independence
When do the first facial hairs present in pubescent males?
between 14 to 17 years of age
Do males or females experience growth spurts first?
females
Does the amount of white matter in the brain increase or decrease over the course of adolescence?
increases
Who describes adolescence as the stage of life in which the individual's thoughts start taking more of an abstract form?
Piaget
Do adolescents or children understand puns, proverbs, metaphors, and analogies most effectively?
adolescents
Most injuries sustained by adolescents are related to what?
risky behavior
When does differentiation appear fully developed?
by mid-adolescence
In what year did Troiden propose a four-stage model for the development of homosexual sexual identity?
1989
Does intimacy between same-sex siblings increase or decrease during adolescence?
increases
Do adolescents associate with "cliques" on a large or small scale?
small
What percentage of adolescents reporting having experienced physical violence in a relationship?
10-45%
Does adolescent participation in family work and routines have a positive or negative influence on feelings of self-worth, care, and concern for others?
positive
Through what means does an adolescent develop a unique belief system?
interaction with social, familial, and cultural environments
What percentage of adolescent homes have access to the internet?
more than three-quarters
What is DIS?
a fusion of the literature of both developmental and intervention sciences
What does the alcohol and illegal drug habits of teens tend to be shaped by?
the substance use of friends and other classmates
What is the range of consentual age variance between jurisdictions?
12 to 20 years
What type of land is Antarctica considered to be?
desert
What does West Antarctica most resemble geologically?
the Andes mountain range of South America
What country was given the name Terra Australis instead of Antarctica?
Australia
Part of what study is the census of Antarctic marine life?
Census of Marine Life
What explorer led the Nimrod Expedition into Antarctica?
Ernest Shackleton
When was the Antarctic Conservation Act passed by the U.S.?
1978
Since what year has tourism been ongoing to Antarctica?
1957
What is the main mineral found on Antarctica?
coal
What type of research was Princess Elizabeth station built to study?
climate change
What type of ice originates on land and floats out to sea?
floating ice shelves
What can not grow extensively in Antarctica?
vegetation
Since what year have claims been suspended in Antarctica?
1959
When did Cook's ships cross the Antarctic circle?
17 January 1773
What has been an important atmospheric study since the 1970s?
ozone layer
What type of climate did Gondwana have during the Cambrian period?
mild
What is the Earth's most southern continent?
Antarctica
Where was the coldest temperature recorded on Earth?
Antarctica
Who wrote a book describing a cold region in 350 B.C.?
Aristotle
In what do some scientists believe ozone depletion may have a role ?
climatic change
Who has research stations in Antarctica?
Several governments
What is the southern most continent?
Antarctica
What sea plankton doe many sea creatures rely on to live?
phytoplankton
What is the highest peak in Antarctica?
Vinson Massif
When did negotiations start to regulate mining in Antarctica?
1983
What did most of Gondwana become when the polar ice melted?
desert
What astronomical study is important research for Antarctica?
Meteorites
What location means that Antarctica get little solar radiation?
South Pole
Where did the first semi-permanent residents of the Antarctic area live?
South Georgia
Where in Antarctica has warming been noticed?
Antarctic Peninsula
What animal was greatly hunted during the 18th and 19th centuries?
Antarctic fur seal
When did the Environmental Protocol become effective?
1998
What does the Protocol on Environmental Protection seek to regulate?
resources
How do the meteorites found in Antarctica add to knowledge about the solar system?
better understanding
When did the Larsen-B ice shelf collapse?
2002
When was the first time humans visited Antarctica?
19th century
How much of Antarctica is covered by ice?
98%
What lake is thought to contain microbial life?
Lake Vostok
In what period did Africa beak off from Antarctica?
Jurassic
Which of the the poles is colder?
Antarctica
Who was the first person born south of the 60th parallel?
Emilio Marcos Palma
How many species of fungi have been found on Antarctica?
1150
What did the British claim in 2012?
Queen Elizabeth Land
The entry of whom has caused some worry about the welfare of Antarctica?
visitors
What group of scientists study tectonics?
Geologists
Who were Mary's parents?
Saint Joachim and Saint Anne
Which angel appeared to Mary?
Gabriel
When was the Assumption dogmatically define by the Catholic Church?
1950
How long in total was the "blood of her purifying" for Mary?
40 days
What was Zechariah's occupation?
priest
Name the two women present with Mary at the Crucifixion of Jesus?
Mary of Clopas and Mary Magdalene
Which Egyptian goddess do some scholars ascribe similarities to?
Isis
In which country is Ephesus?
Turkey
In which year was the Second Council of Nicea?
787
Where is the site of the first Church dedicated to Mary?
Ephesus
Jesus was known as the "King of Kings" because of his lieage from who?
King David
Who wrote polemics regarding Roman Catholic beliefs about Mary?
Martin Luther
On what date does the Catholic Church celebrate the Feast of the Assumption?
August 15
Which color is traditionally used to portray Mary in paintings?
blue
According to Nontrinitarian belief, what is Mary's relationship to Jesus?
biological mother
By what name is Mary referred to in the Qur'an?
Maryam
What term is used to describe the belief that Mary remained a virgin for her entire life?
Ever-Virgin
In Orthodox tradition, what comes next in precdence after The Theotokos in the order of the saints?
Angels
What is the mother church of the Angican Communion?
the Church of England
For what practice did the first Protestants criticize the Roman Catholics?
venerating Mary
Which doctrine about Mary do Methodists reject?
the Immaculate Conception
To whom was Mary dedicated while still in the womb?
Allah
Who suggested that Jesus was the son of a Roman soldier?
Celsus
What is the literal meaning of Theotokos?
Giver of birth to God
What is the first stage of Jewish marriage?
betrothal
Which Gospel says that Mary fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah?
Matthew
What title is given to Mary in the Catholic Church?
Blessed
What are Akathists?
standing hymns
What is the name given to the Annunciation in the 1662 Book of Common Prayer?
Annunciation of our Lady
Which theologian described Mariology as "the heresy of the Catholic Church?"
Karl Barth
Who do Christians believe is prophesized in Isaiah 7:14?
Virgin Mary
Who did Jesus say were his "brother, and sister, and mother?"
Whoever does the will of God
What is the term used for veneration of Mary in Roman Catholic theology?
hyperdulia
In what year did the Third Ecumenical Council occur in Ephesus?
431
On what date is the feast of the Immaculate Conception in the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church?
December 8
What book is considered to be the source of many Orthodox beliefs regarding Mary?
The Protoevangelium of James
Which religion believes that God put a veil between Satan and Mary?
Islamic
Where in Jewish literature is the story about Panthera found?
the Toledot Yeshu
What is the second busiest airport in Australia?
Melbourne Airport
Between what year's did Victorian aboriginal groups dispossessed?
Between 1836 and 1842
When was the gold rush over in Melbourne?
1860
What is the most populas city in the Australian state of Victoria?
Melbourne
When did severe depression hit Melbourne's city?
1890s
What term is given to the slums established on the souther banks of the Yarra?
tent city
In what year was a telephone exchange established in Melbourne?
1880
What weather phrase has become part of local popular culture in Melbourne and concerns the city's rapid change in weather?
four seasons in one day
Is the observation deck in The Rialto currently opened or closed?
closed
To what areas has Melbourne dedicated substantial international investment?
industries and property market
What effect has the housing boom had on house prices and rents?
increased
Who was Melbourne named by?
the Governor of New South Wales, Sir Richard Bourke
In what year did Melbourne set a target to reduce carbon emissions to net zero?
2002
Who designed the Rialto Building in 1889? 
William Pitt
Tasmania was formerly known as what?
Van Diemen's Land
What is locally referred to as the Australian Dream?
quarter acre home and garden
When Victoria was established as a seperate colony, the need for what followed?
public buildings
Which writer's festival is home to Melbourne?
Melbourne Writers Festival
Which phrase was coined by George Augustus Henry Sala during a visit to Melbourne in 1885?
Marvellous Melbourne
Melbourne is the world's most liveable city according to whom?
Economist Intelligence Unit
How many of the top twenty high school sin Australia are located in Mebourne according to the Better Education ranking?
six
In what year were height limits lifted in the Melbourne CBD?
1958
In what year was Melbourne the host city for the first Olympic Games held in the southern hemisphere?
1956
In what year was the first plan for the city commissioned?
1837
Was Melbourne more or less affected by the Late-2000s financial crisis in comparison to other Australian cities?
less affected
How many of the big four banks are headquartered in Melbourne?
Two
In what two decades was the layout of Melbourne's inner suburbs established?
1850s and 1860s
What percentage of Melburnians speak only English at home?
68.1%
During which seasons are Melbourne's temperature differentials most pronounced?
spring and summer
Which government project aimed to deepen Melbourne ports by dredging?
the Port Phillip Channel Deepening Project
Investment in what greatly accelerated the outward suburban sprawn and declining inner city population?
freeway and highway developments
How many lines does the Melbourne rail network have?
16
Which university maintains two major campuses in Melbourne and Geelong and is the third largest university in Victoria?
Deakin University
Which city is often referred to as Australia's garden city?
Melbourne
Approximately how many sunny days does Melbourne receive annually?
48.6
Which act sets functions for Melbourne such as urban planning and waste management?
Local Government Act 1989
What are the dimensions of the Hoddle Grid?
1 by 1⁄2 mile (1.61 by 0.80 km)
Which railway station was the busiest in the world in the mid-1920s?
Flinders Street Station
What are the two most popular sports in Melbourne?
Australian rules football and cricket
Which port is Australia's largest container and general cargo port?
The Port of Melbourne
How many people are employed by the ICT industry in Melbourne?
60,000
Melbourne's population could overtake that of Sydney by 2037 or 2039 primarily due to what factor?
larger levels of internal migration losses assumed for Sydney
Which theatre was Melbourne's first live performance institution?
Pavilion
How many daily newspapers serve Melbourne?
Three
When did Melbourne Heart become known as Melbourne City FC?
June 2014
Does Melbourne have a high or low dependency on the automobile?
high
What have Postcode 3000 and Melbourne 2030 aimed to do?
curtail urban sprawl
Where are Million Dollar Minute and Family Feud based?
Melbourne
How many airports does Melbourne have?
four
Which rail station was the world's busiest passenger station in 1927?
Flinders Street Station
Who manages the water storage and supply for Melbourne?
Melbourne Water
Melbourne experienced rapid growth after 1851 due to the discovery of what?
gold
Where was the first federal parliament convened in 1901?
Royal Exhibition Building
During which years did Melbourne experience an economic downturn?
1989 to 1992
Which body of water and township of the same name marks the border between Melbourne and Geelong?
Little River
Has Melbourne's air quality improved or declined since the 1980s?
improved significantly
Which factors make Melbourne one of the moust vibrant destinations in Australia?
The climate, waterfront location and nightlife
What was the world's first feature film?
The Story of the Kelly Gang
What are the most common type of housing outside inner city Melbourne?
Free standing dwellings with relatively large gardens
In which areas does Melbourne's diversified economy have strengths?
finance, manufacturing, research, IT, education, logistics, transportation and tourism
Which city has the largest Greek-speaking population outside of Europe?
Melbourne
Which Melbourne based university has campuses in Malaysia?
Swinburne University
What are examples of Youth radio stations?
ABC Triple J and youth run SYN
What are the origins of Melbourne's tram network?
the city's 1880s land boom
When was John born?
24 December 1166
Who backed John's elder brothers?
Eleanor
When did Richard die?
6 April 1199
When did Philip summon John to attend court?
1202
What principle did John's predecessors use?
vis et voluntas
What happened at the start of John's reign?
sudden change in prices
Who was Henry's favorite child?
John
Who was John's second wife?
Isabella of Angoulême
When did war with France break out?
1202
What prevented the departure of the planned 1205 expedition?
Baronial unrest in England
When was Henry crowned King of England?
1170
How tall was John?
5 ft 5 in
When did Hubert Walter die?
13 July 1205
When did John make his first visit to Ireland?
1185
Who did Henry fight a short war with in 1183?
Richard
When were the papal terms for submission accepted?
May 1213
Who did John explore an alliance with?
French king Philip II
Who refused to work with Puiset?
Longchamp
Where did the rebel barons congregate?
Northampton
How long did the new peace last?
two years
John moved south into where?
France
The rebel barons invited who to lead them?
French prince Louis
Who did John attempt to convince?
Pope Innocent III
What victory strengthened John's position?
Mirebeau
Who was declared the protector of Henry III after John's death?
William Marshal
What was one of John's principal challenges?
acquiring the large sums of money needed
What was of particular importance to John?
administration of justice
When did new interpretations of John's reign begin to emerge?
1940s
John was deeply suspicious of who?
the barons
Who did Henry II express his fury and ill-will towards?
Thomas Becket
John spent much of 1205 doing what?
securing England
John focused on trying to retake what?
Normandy
John remained what throughout his reign?
Lord of Ireland
When was the political relationship between England and Scotland disputed?
late 12th and early 13th centuries
John treated the interdict as what?
the equivalent of a papal declaration of war
John felt Langton was overly influenced by what?
the Capetian court in Paris
John besieged what castle?
Roche-au-Moine
When did John begin his final campaign to reclaim Normandy?
1214
Who made the first move in the war?
rebels
Who suspected that the proposed baronial council would be unacceptable?
rebel barons
What did the king lose on his way to the west?
significant part of his baggage
When did John begin a fresh, vigorous attack?
September 1216
Which historians were favourably inclined towards the king?
Tudor historians
What heavily influenced nineteenth-century fictional depictions of John?
Ivanhoe
Which historians wrote early in John's life?
Richard of Devizes, William of Newburgh, Roger of Hoveden and Ralph de Diceto
When did popular representations of John begin to emerge?
Tudor period
Who was critical of John's performance as king?
Contemporary chroniclers
Henry II wanted to secure the southern borders of what?
Aquitaine
Richard withdrew what towards John?
malevolentia
Who was Isabella engaged to?
Hugh of Lusignan
What did John attempt to relieve in late 1203?
Château Gaillard
How many times did John levi scutage payments?
eleven
Many of John's mistresses were what?
married noblewomen
How many galleys were available by the end of 1204?
50
Where did John visit every year between 1204 and 1211?
Wales
Where were Monastic communities allowed to celebrate Mass in private?
1209
Where did John hold a council in January 1215?
London
When did John retake Rochester Castle?
November
When did John die?
18 October
Who blamed John's family background for his cruel personality?
James Ramsay
John lost the duchy of Normandy to who?
King Philip II of France
Where did Eleanor leave to?
Poitiers
John spent the conflict traveling alongside who?
his father
Who took over as joint justiciar with Puiset after Mandeville died?
Longchamp
Warfare in Normandy was shaped by what?
defensive potential of castles
Who accompanied John?
William de Roches
What did John inherit in England?
sophisticated system of administration
John's royal household was based around what?
several groups of followers
Historians suspected that John was at best what?
impious
What did John do during the truce of 1206-1208?
focused on building up his financial and military resources
Who did John want to be appointed Archbishop of Canterbury?
John de Gray
Where did many of the disaffected barons come from?
north of England
When did John meet the rebel leaders at Runnymede?
15 June 1215
When did Prince Louis int to land in the south of England?
May 1216
When was Isabel released from imprisonment?
1214
What biographers argue that John was an unsuccessful monarch?
Ralph Turner and Lewis Warren
What hindered the competetive ability of Apple when it was introduced?
expensive
How much RAM did the first Maciuntosh board have?
64 kilobytes (kB)
How much did Apple spend to advertise in a special post-election issue of Newsweek?
$2.5 million
What was the longest-lived Macintosh in Apple's history while it was in production?
The Mac Plus
What Macintosh first included an on-board MMU?
the Macintosh IIx
Which Mac is known for improving the handling of color graphics?
Mac OS, System 7
Who returned to Apple in 1997?
Steve Jobs
What did dated architecture on the Mac OS line make necessary?
replacement
What is the only mainstream computer platform to successfully transition to a new CPU architecture?
Macintosh
Which technique was once used to boot an alternate operating system than Mac OS?
boot into Mac OS and then to hand over control to a Mac OS-based bootloader application
Who was brought in to shape the marketing of Macintosh in 1982?
Regis McKenna
Who initiated a successful price war among PC manufacturers in 1994?
Compaq
What percent of the desktop share in the U.S. did Apple have in 2003?
2.06
When was the Macintosh SE released at the same time as?
the Macintosh II
What is partially credited for the significant boost in sales of Macs in recent years?
the success of the iPod and the iPhone
What did Apple introduce in 1990 to combat competition from smartphones?
relatively inexpensive Macs
When did Apple begin to favor aluminum in their design?
2006
Who began the Macintosh project in 1979?
Jef Raskin
Who discussed rumors of a mysterious "MacIntosh" project in 1983?
John Dvorak
When was the Macintosh branded as Mac?
1997
When was the activity of desktop publishing first used?
1985
What year was Raskin hired by Apple?
September 1979
How many Macs did Apple sell worldwide during the 2009 holiday season?
3.36 million
In 1987, what did Apple spin off its software business as?
Claris
What two applications came bundled with Macs 2 days after "1984" was aired?
MacWrite and MacPaint
According to NPD, who has generally dominated the premium PC market?
Apple
What part of the Mac's could not be expanded easily in 1984?
memory
On what grounds did Apple sue Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard in 1988?
they infringed Apple's copyrighted GUI
What did Apple's creation of too many similar models do to potential buyers?
confused potential buyers
When did Apple begin shipping computers with CD-RW drives?
early 2001
What was the name of Apple's first portable computer?
Macintosh Portable
What was Apple's Mac OS X based on?
Darwin and NEXTSTEP
What desktop did Apple release after the discontinued Power Macintosh G3?
Power Mac G4 Cube
Historically, what is near-absent in Mac OS X compared to Microsoft Windows?
malware and spyware
What was the market share of OS X in North America by March 2011?
slightly over 14%
Who refused to lower the profit margins on Mac computers in 1989?
Jean-Louis Gassée
What did Apple begin to eliminate in 2002?
CRT displays
In 2009, how many Macs sold were laptops?
seven out of ten
What did Apple consolidate in 1998?
its multiple consumer-level desktop models
Why did Raskin leave the Apple team in 1981?
over a personality conflict with Jobs
What did Jobs state that he expected Macintosh to become?
the third industry standard
Whose technology did Apple take advantage of when introducing the Macintosh II?
Motorola
When Microsfot Windows 3.0 was released, what was it commonly said to not be as good as?
Macintosh
What did Intel unsuccessfully try to push Apple to migrate to?
Intel chips
What color was Apples new iMac, which was introduced in 1998?
Bondi blue
When did Apple discontinue the use of PowerPC microprocessors?
2006
Who was initially reluctant to embrace mice with multiple buttons and scroll wheels?
Apple
What type of software began to emerge following the release of Intel-based Macs?
third-party platform virtualization
What has been the best-selling ultra-portable over Windows Ultrabooks in the U.S.?
MacBook Air
What is another term for anti-aircraft warfare?
counter-air defence
What is the Russian term for air defence?
Protivovozdushnaya oborona
When were sensors initially developed?
during the First World War
Which country had the most severe case?
Soviet Union
When did Serbian troops notice enemy aircraft approaching Kragujevac? 
30 September 1915
What was the problem with AA gunnery?
successfully aiming a shell to burst close to its target's future position
What showed that aircraft could be a significant contribution to the battlefield?
World War I
How many different countries developed radar starting in the 1930s?
eight
Who wanted the British to keep using machine guns in World War I?
RAF
What was under development in both the Soviet Union and Britain in the 1930s?
solid fuel rockets
What did the British get a license to build?
the Bofors 40 mm
What kind of aircraft is used to intercept and destroy other aircraft?
The interceptor aircraft
What is another possible weapon for anti-aircraft use?
the laser
What is the air defence of a certain area called?
Area air defence
Which country probably coined the term air defence?
Britain
What is the first purpose of air defence?
detect hostile aircraft
What does NATO define as passive measures to protect people, buildings and equipment from air or missile attacks?
Passive air defence
How many guns or missile launchers are typically in a battery?
2 to 12
It was understood that ammunition needed to explode where?
in the air
What was the primary method for HAA fire?
aimed fire
When were improvements developed for these guns?
throughout the inter-war period
Which country's air defence and aircraft has been under integrated command and control?
Soviet Union
What did the United States Army begin to develop after the first World War?
a dual-role (AA/ground) automatic 37 mm cannon
High altitude needs in Germany were going to be handled by what?
a 75 mm gun from Krupp
What was one of the most often seen weapons that was used both on land and sea?
1940-origin Flakvierling quadruple-20 mm-gun antiaircraft weapon system
What acted as a physical obstacle to anti-aircraft defence?
barrage balloons
What is an important number when it comes to guns engaging an aircraft?
The maximum distance
The missile started being used more often instead of what weapon?
guns
Smaller weapons are able to be used because of their low cost as well as what other factor?
ability to quickly follow the target
What kind of weapons can usually be found on smaller boats and ships?
machine-guns or fast cannons
What type of weapon can be used against hovering helicopters?
Rocket-propelled grenades
What term is used to describe the altitude for a gun to shoot shells against a target that is moving?
"effective ceiling"
What was the standard weapon until the 1950s?
guns firing ballistic munitions
When did the British see the need to add anti-aircraft capability?
8 July 1914
Who provided part of the air defence of the British Isles in WWI
Royal Navy
What helped with better fuse setting?
range measurement
What kind of guns started attracting attention?
balloon, or airship, guns
What two guns were propped up against a hillside to get the muzzles pointed up?
French 75 mm and Russian 76.2 mm
What treaty was supposed to stop Germany from having antiaircraft weapons?
Treaty of Versailles
What did the tachymetric devices do?
track targets and produce vertical and horizontal deflection angles
Poland and other European countries could not defend against what?
German attack
When was the successful test of the 3.6-inch HAA gun?
1918
What was shown to be practically not possible during service trials?
ranging and tracking the new high-speed targets
In the 1920s, which company developed the automatic 20 mm?
Rheinmetall
What were the large blockhouses called that the Germans developed?
Hochbunker "High Bunkers"
Which military set up a large air defence network surrounding its larger cities?
the U.S. Army
What was the name of the mechanical computer that used automation?
the Kerrison Predictor
What did the muzzle flashes of the firearms used by the infantry reveal?
infantry positions
Rocket research began prior to which war in some countries?
World War II
Which weapon caused a major shift in anti-aircraft strategy?
guided missile
Where can the future of projectile based weapons possibly be found?
the railgun
What are two types of fuses used for shells?
barometric, time-delay, or proximity
Air defence in such places as a carrier group are built around what?
a system of concentric layers
What is likely to entirely replace gun systems?
missiles
Contemporary air defence systems are usually what?
mobile
What military forces usually integrate air defnce as a separate arm or part of artillery?
Western and Commonwealth militaries
What do armies tend to have in depth?
air defence
In agreement with NATO members, the US Air Force and which country has created tactics for air defence suppression?
Israel
What does AAAD stand for?
All-Arms Air Defence
What was one of the quickest areas to evolve in military technology in the 20th century?
air defence
How are batteries typically grouped?
into battalions
Air attacks headed by  Germany increased in 1915 in what area?
the British Isles
What was many times unpopular with other troops?
AA guns
What year did the British adopt the new Vickers instrument?
1925
When year did the Dambusters raid happen?
1943
What was also utilized to control ground targets?
AAA battalions
What did advanced ally technology showcase it could defend against?
German V-1 cruise missiles
In what war did the armed forces from Argentina use the SAM Roland?
1982 Falklands War
What can be deployed in fixed launchers but re-deploy at will?
Larger SAMs
What continues to grow along with stealth technology?
anti-stealth technology
Sanskrit is the primary sacred language of which religion?
Hinduism
In what year was the daily newspaper Sudharma first published?
1970
In Ancient India, which vernacular languages existed alongside Sanskrit?
Prakrits
Around what time did the Gupta script become prevalent for writing Sanskrit?
between the fourth and eighth centuries
Tagalog is what kind of language?
Philippine
What are two examples of epic poetry written in Sanskrit?
the Ramayana and Mahabharata
When was the time of Panini?
fourth century BCE
Who has said the Sanskrit is dead?
Sheldon Pollock
To what has the Central Board of Education of India relegated Sanskrit? 
alternative option
What English school offers Sanskrit as a language study?
St James Junior School
Under what type of tradition did Sanskrit begin?
oral tradition
From what time has the Latin alphabet been used to transcribe Sanskrit?
late 18th century
What in the use of Sanskrit has influenced Sino-Tibetan languages?
Buddhist texts
What language has influenced the languages of India?
Sanskrit
From when are the earliest dated Sanskrit inscriptions?
first century BCE
What is the Sanskrit grammatical tradition?
Vyākaraṇa
According to Panini, from where did Sanskrit evolve?
earlier Vedic
When is it thought that early speakers of Sanskrit came to India?
early second millennium BCE
What form of speech shows that Sanskrit and Prakrits existed together?
Sanskrit dramas
What organization is trying to revive Sanskrit?
Samskrita Bharati
When was Sanskrit and Indian culture popular?
18th century
Who wrote an opera in Sanskrit?
Philip Glass
What country is Valencia in?
Spain
What is the main type of employment in Valencia?
service sector occupations
What airport is closest to Valencia?
Valencia Airport
What promenade was built north of Valencia's port?
The Paseo Marítimo
How long did the English occupy Valencia?
16 months
In what year did Christian troops lose control of Valencia?
1102
When was the Valencian Golden Age?
15th century
Who suppressed agermanats' uprising?
Germaine of Foix
What were Valencia's main food exports in the early 20th century?
wine and citrus
What is Valencia's average yearly temperature?
18.4 °C
When was the age of Enlightenment?
18th century
Whose regime prohibited political parties?
Franco
What percentage of Spanish exports does Valencia's port handle?
20
Who helped repress the supporters of the Constitution and was later executed for it?
Elío
What is the name of the cup that some Catholics think is the Grail?
Santo Caliz
In what year did the cantonalist uprising occur?
1873
Who designed the City of Arts and Sciences?
Santiago Calatrava
How many official languages does Valencia have?
two
During what period has Valencia had a cultural surge?
the last thirty years
What church holds some of Spain's greatest frescoes?
Saints John
When did the Byzantines invade the Iberian peninsula?
554
When was the dome built?
15th century
What ruler attacked Valencia in 1238?
King James I of Aragon
Which America's Cup competitions did Valencia host?
the 32nd and the 33rd
Who commanded that Valencia be destroyed?
Abd al-Rahman I
When were the Serranos Towers constructed?
1392
What war took place from 1702-1709?
War of Spanish Succession
Who attacked Valencia with French soldiers but failed to capture it?
Moncey
What people group was descended from Muslim converts to Christianity?
Moriscos
Who got rich from the Valencian orange crop and vineyards?
land-owners
Who was Spain's 18th Prime Minister?
Espartero
How many people died when the Valencia metro derailed?
43
What was Valencia's population in 2000?
739,014
Who was prime minister in 1936?
Manuel Azana
What TV program questioned the official account of the crash?
Salvados
Who was the hospital's patroness?
Santa María de los Inocentes
When did Valencia C.F. win the UEFA Cup?
2004
When was Valencia's founding?
138 BC
How far from Valencia is the Albufera?
11 km
How many inhabitants live within Valencia's limits?
809,267
Who was the ruler of Valencia in 138 BC?
Decimus Junius Brutus Galaico
What was El Cid's real name?
Rodrigo Diaz de Vivar
When did Valencia suffer from the Black Death?
1348
Whose government did the guilds rebel against?
Charles I
What type of people often held Valencia's offices?
foreign aristocrats
Where did Ferdinand go rather than Madrid?
Valencia
When were plans for city expansion drawn?
1858
When democracy began in Spain, what did the kingdom of Valencia become?
the Valencian Community
Where is Valencia's City Hall located?
Plaza del Ayuntamiento
What was the Valencia Cathedral called from 1866?
Basilica Metropolitana
Who won the last race of the European Grand Prix in 2012?
Fernando Alonso
During which decade did GE start manufacuring computers?
1950s
What was the name of the lamp manufacturer in East Newark which Thomas Edison an interest in?
Edison Lamp Company
What is the business source of the majority of GE's revenues?
financial services
Who composed GE's slogan "Imagination at work?"?
David Lucas
Based on year 2000 data, where is GE ranked among the largest corporate producers of air pollution in the US?
fourth-largest
In what year was General Electric formed?
1892
Which river did GE pollute with PCBs from its plant in Pittsfield, MA?
Housatonic River
In what year did GE enter the renewable energy industry?
2002
When did GE announce its Ecoimagination program?
May 2005
Who led GE's effort to build the first turbosupercharges during World War I?
Sanford Alexander Moss
In what time period did GE pollute the Hudson River with PCBs?
1947-77
How much money has GE said it will invest in 2008 for clean technology R&D?
$1.4 billion
What was the name of the project introduced by GE at the 2011 Toronto International Fils Festival?
Short Films, Big Ideas
When did GE announce it was in talks to acquire the French engineering group Alstom?
April 2014
Where is GE's headquarters located?
Fairfield, Connecticut
Which New York State Attorney General filed suit in US District Court to force GE to pay for the cleanup of chemicals dumped by their plant in Waterford, NY?
Robert Abrams
When was the Continental Army created?
14 June 1775
What year did American forces start being stationed in Vietnam?
1959
What was organized to replace the concept of U.S. Volunteers?
the "National Army"
Who is the highest-ranked military officer in the army?
The Chief of Staff
What branch of the USA Armed Forces is the largest?
The United States Army
The War of 1812 consisted of the U.S against whom?
United Kingdom
What political party did not have trust in standing armies?
republican
Where is the National Training Center located?
Fort Irwin, California
In what year did the Union Forces capture New Orleans?
1862
What war occurred after the end of World War II?
Cold War
What month and year did the U.S. join World War II?
December 1941
Who adopted the Total Force Policy?
General Creighton Abrams
Which country was invaded by the U.S. in October 2001?
Afghanistan
What were National Guard members considered before 1903?
state soldiers
How many divisions are there in the U.S. Army?
10
What categories are U.S. Army training divided into?
individual and collective
What does the SAW in M249 SAW stand for?
Squad Automatic Weapon
How many MRAP vehicles has the Pentagon bought since 2007?
25,000
What piece of the uniform has been replaced by the patrol cap?
black beret
How many military departments does the Department of Defense have?
three
What Indian tribe was the Army's major campaign against?
Seminoles
What year did the Korean War start?
1950
In 1989, what did the Pentagon plan to reduce the army end strength to?
580,000
What year was the U.S. army organized?
1775
What is the active component of the U.S. Army?
Regular Army
What does ASI stand for?
additional skill identifier
What does the army use for facilities while they are deployed?
tents
Which war had the most U.S. casualties associated with it?
The American Civil War
In what year did the army start using fixed-wing aircraft?
1910
Who was the Secretary of Defense in 1967?
Robert McNamara
How many victims were killed in the attack on the Pentagon?
125
What is the army replacing divisions with?
brigades
What is the primary sidearm used by the U.S. Army?
9 mm M9 pistol
What does HMMWV stand for?
High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle
Under what Prussian king did the German empire unite as a nation-state?
Wilhelm I
What telegram had the intended effect on French public opinion?
Ems telegram
In which battle did the Dreyse needle gun gain its fame?
Battle of Königgrätz
What was the date of the first action of the Franco-Prussian War?
4 August 1870
What factor were the French unaware of at the start of the battle?
German numerical superiority
On which date was the Battle of Gravelotte?
18 August
What factor forced the French to retreat to Metz?
the defeat of Marshal Bazaine's Army
At the start of the war, which country did European public opinion champion?
the Germans
On which date did hostilities between the German and French troops begin near Orleans?
10 October
What was public opinion in Paris strongly opposed to?
any form of surrender
What stunned neutral observers about the end of the war?
The quick German victory
The effect of German victory and ensuing influence stems back to what factor?
pre-war preparations
Who commanded the Prussian 12 Cavalry Brigade?
General Adalbert von Bredow
In which Prussian province did a large Polish population reside?
Posen
What are the causes of the Franco-Prussian War deeply rooted in?
the unification of Germany
In peacetime, what the approximate number of French soldiers?
400,000
What entity controlled the Prussian army?
the General Staff
On which date did Frossard's and Bazaines's troops cross the German border?
2 August
A dispatch was edited about a meeting between the French ambassador and what Prussian king?
King William
Which town's people surrendered to the Germans?
Wissembourg
What is the Franco-Prussian War also known as?
Franco-German War
In whose cadidacy did the immediate cause of war reside?
Leopold of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen
What battle began when two armies collided in the town of Froschwiller?
The Battle of Wörth
In which country was a war against France condsidered desirable?
Prussia
On what date did the battle begin?
18 August
What modern, mass-produced weapon were the French infantry provided?
Chassepot rifle
On which date did the battle begin with the Army of Chalons attacking various Prussian divisions?
1 September 1870
Pre-war, who planned for a strong French offensive?
Marshal Niel
Which disaster made French planning supremely essential?
the disaster at Wissembourg
What army's defeats turned Gambetta to the Army of the North?
Army of the Loire's
What odds were at stake for the attack launched by the III Corps?
four to one
Which prince ordered an artillery attack against Canrobert?
Prince Frederick Charles
A blockade of what coastline was ordered by the French government at the start of the war?
North German coasts
Which battle was the second of three key French losses?
Battle of Spicheren
The General Staff developed by Moltke proved to be what?
extremely effective
What did the Germans expect to negotiate?
an end to the war
By late afternoon, what were the Prussian southern attacks at risk of?
breaking up
What did the Prussian Army hold in Paris on 17 February?
a brief victory parade
Whose surrender hit Paris as big news?
Napoleon III
A series of Prussian and German victories took place in what part of France?
eastern France
Some historians counter that Napolean III sought what?
war
What did Napoleon III plan to relieve pressure from an expected German attack?
invasion of northern Germany
What was the Prussian Army composed of, instead of regulars?
conscripts
What Prussian system was superior to the French example?
military education
What aspect of the Chassepot was superior to the German needle gun?
longer range
The French Marines and naval infantry were dispatched to reinforce what?
French Army of Châlons
Which marshal was closest to Wissembourg?
Marshal MacMahon
What became highly politicised during the war?
Paris National Guard
Who commanded the French army at the battle of Worth?
General MacMahon
Who were the casualties especially terrible for?
the attacking Prussian forces
What was the republican government amenable to?
war reparations
Who was the Prussian Minister of War?
Albrecht von Roon
What type of artillery were the French equipped with?
bronze, rifled muzzle-loading
On what date did the Government of National Defence negotiate an armistice?
28 January 1871
How many were killed by the Communards?
500 people
At the start of the war, how many German troops were focused on the French frontier?
462,000
The events of the Franco-Prussian War had great influence on what?
military thinking
A unified German Empire ended the balance of power in which congress?
Congress of Vienna
Where in Eritrea did Italian scientists find one of the oldest hominids?
Buya
Who was James Bruce?
Scottish traveler
What subsequently led to the Eritran War of Independence?
annexation
What did excavations around Agordat yield the remains of?
the Gash Group
What purpose did stelae serve?
religious
What is the abbreviation for the United Nations' Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions?
ACABQ
Who ruled Aksum and also governed the port of Adulis?
Zoskales
When was the Eritrean Railway completed in Saati?
1888
Who prompted Eritrea to be federated with Ethiopia in 1950?
United States
What did the Eritrea administration open to produce products such as buttons and construction materials?
a number of new factories
What big cat is said to inhabit the mountains of the Gash-Barka Region?
Lions
How many ecoregions make up Eritrea?
three
How many elephants are believed to be left in Eritrea?
around 100
According to Human Rights Watch, how do the human rights in Eritrea compare to the rest of the world?
among the worst
Why have Eritrean government officials participated in numerous meetings with NGO representatives?
In an attempt at reform
In the 2014 Press Freedom Index, what organization ranked the media environment in Eritrea as the worse of 178 countries?
Reporters Without Borders
Under which program did Eritrea develp and repair its transportation infrastructure during the war?
Warsay Yika'alo
What is the official language of Eritrea?
The nation has no official language
Which part of Eritrea's health care goals have they been most successful in?
child health
Where does the Italian influences on Eritrean cuisine come from?
its colonial history
What geographical location in Eritrea has largely shaped the culture of Eritrea?
Red Sea coast
What country borders Eritrea in the west?
Sudan
What is the best know musical genre amongst the Tigrinya?
guaila
What was the Eritrean region known as during the Middle Ages?
Medri Bahri
In 2010, what was conducted on mummified remains of baboons?
genetic
What  domain were the Eritrean highlands under after the decline of Aksum?
Bahr Negash ruled by the Bahr Negus
Whose rise to power in 1922 brought profounc change to the government in Italian Eritrea?
Benito Mussolini's
Who dissolved the Eritrean parliament in 1962?
Emperor Haile Selassie
What did disagreements following the Eritrean War result in?
stalemate
In 2004, how many physicians did Eritrea have per 1000 people?
0.5
How do most people dress in the larger cities of Eritrea?
Western casual
What are the most popular sports in Eritrea?
Football and cycling
Who occupied the Red Sea coast during the last interglacial period?
early anatomically modern humans
When was the Aussa Sultanate established?
end of the 16th century
When did Emperor Yohannes II die?
1889
What did Emperor Haile Selassie seek to annex in the 1950's?
Eritrea and Italian Somaliland
How is the Eritrean highway system named?
according to the road classification
What percentage of Eritrea is estimated to adhere to Christianity?
50%
What ages are officially compulsary for education in Eritrea?
between seven and 13 years of age
What meat does a traditional Eritrean stew consist of?
beef, kid, lamb or fish
What kind of uranium is sometimes used to shield radioactive materials in containers?
Depleted
What is another term for uranium ore?
pitchblende
What was the world's first artificial nuclear reactor?
Enrico Fermi's Chicago Pile
Where does uranium rank among elements in terms of its abundance in the Earth's crust?
51st
What isotope of uranium was the first to be found fissile?
235
What type of complexes does uranium(VI) form in nature?
carbonate
How much economically viable uranium is there in ore reserves, in millions of tonnes?
5.5
When was it observed that bombarding uranium with neutrons results in beta ray emission?
1934
In what medium does the Pourbaix diagram change when carbonate anions interact with uranium(VI)?
carbonate containing solution
Along with arsenic, what metal is roughly as abundant as uranium?
molybdenum
What is the least prevalent major isotope of natural uranium?
uranium-234
About how many tonnes of uranium is theorized to be present in the sea?
4.6 billion
What is the sole fissile isotope that occurs in nature?
Uranium-235
What is OSHA?
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
Along with UO2, what is the commonest form of uranium oxide?
triuranium octoxide
What was the earliest year in recorded history that uranium oxide was used?
79 CE
What was the first self-sustained nuclear chain reaction created by human beings called?
Chicago Pile-1
Along with lemon yellow, what color is produced in uranium glass?
orange-red
What percentage of uranium in nature is uranium-235?
0.7204%
What is uranium used for most often in the military?
high-density penetrators
Who discovered uranium?
Martin Heinrich Klaproth
What percentage range of uranium oxide is usually contained in low-grade uranium ore?
0.01 to 0.25%
What was the uranium-based bomb made by the US in World War II called?
Little Boy
As of 2005, what country was the largest producer of uranium oxides?
Canada
Who was the Soviet Union's opponent in the Cold War?
United States
What is the color of U4+?
green
What microorganism can notably absorb a very high concentrate of uranium?
Citrobacter
At what temperature range in degrees Fahrenheit will uranium metal form uranium hydride?
482 to 572
Along with uranium monocarbide and uranium dicarbide, what is a notable carbide of uranium?
diuranium tricarbide
Between what percent fraction range of uranium-235 is uranium regarded as enriched?
3% and 5%
Along with the heart, brain and liver, what system is notably affected by exposure to uranium?
kidney
What is the name of the most widely used enrichment process?
gas centrifuge
What is uranium's symbol on the Periodic Table of Elements?
U
What non-metal elements does uranium notably not react to?
noble gases
During what war was uranium-235 first used to create nuclear weapons?
World War II
What product of uranium was used as toner?
nitrate
Of what nationality was Perrin?
French
How many times more abundant than silver is uranium in the Earth's crust?
40
What isotope of uranium has the most stability?
Uranium-238
What happens to a majority of ingested uranium?
excreted
How were the appointments to the Order of the British Empire made?
nomination of the self-governing Dominions of the Empire, the Viceroy of India, and the colonial governors
Who could wear a emblem of two crossed silver oak leaves?
Any individual made a member of the Order for gallantry
Who are appointed to citizens of nations?
Honorary knighthoods
Who are the six officials of The Order?
Prelate; the Dean; the Secretary; the Registrar; the King of Arms; and the Usher
Who was discontinued in the Commonwealth realms?
Appointments to the Order of the British Empire
Who were MBE'S?
The members of The Beatles
Who was the most excellent Order of the British Empire?
order of chivalry of British constitutional monarchy
What was instituted to serve as a lower award granting recipients affiliation?
Medal of the Order of the British Empire
From what year could the Sovereign appoint a person as Commander, Officer or Member of the Order of the British Empire?
1940
Who would prefix Sir, and Dames Grand Cross?
Knights Grand Cross and Knights Commander
Who has set honours awarded by the President of India?
India
How many Knights are in The Order?
300 Knights and Dames Grand Cross
What are the Members of classes of the Order assigned to?
positions in the order of precedence
What year did the Enlightenment begin according to French historians?
1715
Who said that virtue provides "the greatest happiness for the greatest numbers"? 
Francis Hutcheson
What kind of topics began appearing more commonly in poetry and literature during the Enlightenment?
scientific topics
Who developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought?
Thomas Hobbes
How does John Locke define mutual security?
the idea that one cannot infringe on another's natural rights
Who dropped any passages dealing with miracles or visitations of angels from his work the Jefferson Bible?
Thomas Jefferson
In which country did the Enlightenment become associated with anti-government and anti-Church radicalism?
France
By 1794, what did those against the Enlightenment point to as confirmation of their predictions?
Terror during the French Revolution
Most scholars use the beginning of the Napoleonic Wars or which other battle as a convenient date to end the Enlightenment?
French Revolution
The creation of the public sphere is associated with the rise of capitalism and which other historical trend?
rise of the modern nation state
The desire to explore, record and systematize knowledge had a meaningful impact on what other form of publication?
music
What was the principal social institution of the republic during the French Enlightenment?
salon
Where was Bibliotheque Bleue located?
Troyes, France
Who was the target audience of natural history?
French polite society
Who drafted the first technical dictionary?
John Harris
What book was published in 1686 specifically for women with an interest in scientific writing?
Conversations on the Plurality of Worlds
The practice of contests dates back to what time period?
Middle Ages
Where did the first English coffeehouse open in 1650?
Oxford
Diderot, Voltaire, Mozart, Goethe, and Benjamin Franklin were all members of what secret network?
Freemasonry
Trying to apply Enlightenment thought on religious and political tolerance became known as what?
enlightened absolutism
Kant's work continued to shape German thought and European philosophy well into what century?
20th
The basis of classical liberalism comes from whose philosophical concepts?
Hume
What did Locke, Hobbes, and Rousseau agree was necessary for a man to live in civil society?
social contract
Leaders of the Enlightenment that helped design laws and programs to reform the court system are called what by historians?
enlightened despots
Did Mendelssohn and Spinoza judge religion on its moral fruits or logic of its theology??
moral fruits
Who did Voltaire say that France looked to for ideas of civilization?
Scotland
In what year was the French term Lumieres first used?
1733
Did rising efficiency in production and communication lower or raise the prices of consumer goods?
lowered
A the economy and middle class expanded, what artistic profession had an increasing number of members?
musicians
By what century in France had the men of letters fused with the elites?
mid-18th century
During which movement were the first scientific and literary journals established?
the Enlightenment
Which work published in 1712 explained terms that usefully described the trades and scientific and commercial education?
The Marperger Curieuses Natur-, Kunst-, Berg-, Gewerkund Handlungs-Lexicon
What enforced contest rule guaranteed that neither gender nor social rank would determine the judging?
anonymity
Where was the Cafe Procope established in 1686?
Paris
Where did Freemasonry originate?
Scotland
Who is known for his statement that individuals have a right to "Life, Liberty and Property"?
Locke
Which king of Prussia saw himself as the leader of the Enlightenment?
Frederick the Great
Which American Enlightenment sympathiser was known for his political activism and advances in physics?
Benjamin Franklin
What term was given to the writers of Grub Street?
the Grub Street Hacks
Which venue created a unique environment in which people from many different walks of life could gather and share ideas?
Coffeehouses
Did natural history in particular become increasingly popular amoung the upper or lower classes?
upper
In what decade did the first Masonic lodges appear on the Continent?
1730s
Which venue represents a turning point in history during which people discovered that they could have enjoyable social lives within their communities?
Coffeehouses
Who was the major opponent to Freemasonry?
Roman Catholic Church
How was the Enlightenment known in French?
Siècle des Lumières
Which city in the mid-18th century became the center of an explosion of philosophic and scientific activity?
Paris
What was the most influential publication of the Enlightenment?
the Encyclopédie
What was the name of the conservative group opposing the Enlightenment?
Counter-Enlightenment.
Who is credited with the concept of separating church and state?
John Locke
According to Thomas Paine, what is the definition of Deism?
the simple belief in God the Creator, with no reference to the Bible or any other miraculous source
Whixh population groups were excluded from most institutions of the public sphere?
women and the lower classes
The increased consumption of what type of material was one of the key features of the "social" Enlightenment?
reading materials
Whose incomes did public concerts help support?
performers' and composers'
What year was the Academy of Science in France founded?
1635
Where were many of the leading universities associated with Enlightenment progressive principles located?
northern Europe
How can associationism be defined?
the notion that the mind associates or dissociates ideas through repeated routines
What were the prime examples of reference works that systemasized scientific knowledge in the age oif Enlightenment?
universal encyclopedias
Anatomy, biology, geology, mineralogy, and zoology are all studies of which subject?
natural history
Many Enlightenment writers and thinkers had backgrounds in the sciences and associated scientific advancement with overthrow of religion and traditional authority in favor of what?
the development of free speech and thought
For which masterpiece did Cesare Beccaria become famous?
Crimes and Punishments (1764)
What did contemporary sources claim was the purpose of the universiity in contrast to the societies?
transmission of knowledge
The Enlightenment is frequently linked to the French Revolution of what year?
1789
In what work did Ferguson explain how humans advanced from a hunting and gathering society to a commercial and civil society without "signing" a social contract?
An Essay on the History of Civil Society
What century produced the first Russian univeristy, library, theatre, public museum, and independent press?
18th century
Which philosopher believed that the Enlightenment was ultimately born out of Protestant reaction against the Catholic counter-reformation?
Bertrand Russell
How did Alexis de Tocqueville describe the French Revolution?
the inevitable result of the radical opposition created in the 18th century between the monarchy and the men of letters of the Enlightenment
Which Jewish philosopher referred to Enlightenment as a process by which man was educated in the use of reason?
Moses Mendelssohn
John Locke, Francis Bacon, and Isaac Newton where considered the the greatest men who ever lived by which American colonist?
Thomas Jefferson
From a historical standpoint, what was one of the most important features of the debating society?
openness to the public
What aspect of the Enlightenment did Robert Darnton and Jurgen Habermas focus on within the Enlightenment?
social conditions
What do Jonathon Israel claim caused the change that eventually led to the revolutions of the latter half of the 18th centure and early 19th century?
the ideas themselves
How was the public sphere defined?
realm of communication marked by new arenas of debate, more open and accessible forms of urban public space and sociability, and an explosion of print culture
Book sellers and publishers had to negotiate censorship laws of varying strictness in what country, especially?
France
Who helped The Encyclopedie find its way into print using the French censorship law creatively?
Malesherbes
What did the Republic of Letters support?
free public examination of questions regarding religion or legislation
Who called the journals the most influential cultural innovation of European intellectual culture?
Jonathan Israel
How did dictionaries and encyclopedias change in the 18th century?
from simply defining words in a long running list to far more detailed discussions of those words
How was the Encyclopedie arranged?
according to a "tree of knowledge."
Which society in England also played a significant role in the public sphere and spread of Enlightenment ideas?
Royal Society of London
Before the Enlightenment, most intellectual debates revoled around what subject?
"confessional"
According to German historian Reinhart Koselleck, which two social structures left a decisive imprint on the Age of Enlightenment?
the Republic of Letters and the Masonic lodges
What ordering scheme did readers prefer?
alphabetical
What caused an increasingly literate population to develop in the Enlightenment era?
a high rise in the availability of food
For what do Circadian rhythms let an organism prepare?
environmental changes
What type of animals have been shown to have circadian rhythms only at certain times?
Arctic animals
What produces a self-sustaining rhythm?
central oscillator
What is the Drosophila gene the cause of?
sleep disorder FASPS
Whose work habits and environment prevents them from maintaining a regular sleep pattern?
airline pilots
What is the earliest recorded instance of circadian rhythm?
4th century B.C.E
What is the plant expression of circadian rhythm?
when to flower
What has the simplest known circadian clock?
prokaryotic cyanobacteria
To what is the circadian rhythm tied?
light–dark cycle
What chemical is absent or low during daylight?
Melatonin
What physical factor must be continuously monitored during temperature studies> 
temperatures
Who noticed that sleepiness increases and decreases in a 24 hour period?
Patrick and Gilbert
Inside of what can the molecular circadian clock operate?
single cell
What signals plants to synchronize their internal clocks?
Light
What time cycle did studies in 1938 and 1990s use on humans?
28-hour
What effect does jet-lag and shift-work have on the human body?
profound consequences
What do studies show has a bidirectional relationship with the circadian system?
abusive drugs
What is theorized to have evolved with circadian rhythms?
photosensitive proteins
What is the body clock gene in animals necessary to ensure?
cellular/metabolic events
Where is the primary circadian gene located in humans?
suprachiasmatic nucleus
What did early research show people preferred as a day length?
25 hours
Where else beside the SCN cells are independent circadian rhythms also found?
organs and cells
Who is the world's oldest reigning monarch?
Elizabeth
Who did England propose to affiliate with Wales to quell Welsh nationalism?
Elizabeth
When were Elizabeth and Philip married?
20 November 1947
Who did Princess Margaret want to marry?
Peter Townsend
Aside from her choice of Eden's successor, what crisis caused Elizabeth to be criticized?
Suez crisis
During the Australian constitutional crisis, what Prime Minister was dismissed?
Gough Whitlam
When did Elizabeth support constitutional amendments in Canada?
1987
What did Elizabeth celebrate in 2002?
Golden Jubilee
When did Elizabeth open the Summer Olympics in Montreal?
1976
What has been a subject of speculation concerning Elizabeth's wealth?
personal fortune
When was Elizabeth's coronation?
1953
When was the coronation of Elizabeth as Queen?
2 June 1953
When did Elizabeth address the UN General Assembly?
1957
What Jubilee did Elizabeth celebrate in 1977?
Silver
As what was Elizabeth portrayed in the 1950s?
"fairytale Queen"
What famous jewelry collection is held in trust by Elizabeth?
Crown Jewels
Who was Elizabeth only sibling?P
Princess Margaret
At what age was Elizabeth when she went on her first solo public appearance?
16
Where did Philip serve during WWII?
Royal Navy
What was the state of George VI's health during 1951?
health declined
When did the prime ministers of Britain and France discuss the idea of France joining the Commonwealth?
1956
When did the decolonization of Africa and the Caribbean accelerate?
1960s and 1970s
During what ceremony were shots fired at the Queen?
Trooping the Colour
What political feeling is still a minority view in Britain?
republicanism
When was the second address to the UN by Elizabeth?
2010
Until she became queen, what flower was on Elizabeth's coat of arms?
Tudor rose
In what city was Elizabeth born?
London
When she was born, where in the order of succession was Elizabeth?
third
What name was it assumed Elizabeth would take upon her marriage to Philip?
Mountbatten,
Who did Eden recommend that Elizabeth consult about appointing a new  Prime Minister?
Lord Salisbury
When did Edward Heath ask Elizabeth to call a general election?
February 1974
What did high public interest in the  private lives of the royal family cause in the press?
sensational stories
What incident killed Diana in Paris?
car crash
How many years has Elizabeth been Queen?
60 years
What governmental style of monarch is Elizabeth?
constitutional monarch
During whose reign was Elizabeth born?
King George V
When did Britain enter WWII?
September 1939
Where did the newly married Elizabeth and Philip stay until 1949?
Windlesham Moor
What entity did the British Empire slowly become during Elizabeth's reign?
Commonwealth of Nations
About whom was Elizabeth worried in the 1970s?
Pierre Trudeau
What did Elizabeth's speech on 24 November, 1992 mark?
her accession
Who, in 2007, frustrated Elizabeth?
Prime Minister, Tony Blair
Who did Elizabeth surpass in longest lived British monarch?
Queen Victoria
When was Elizabeth's Silver Jubilee?
1977
What feature do Elizabeth's titles usually follow in each country?
similar formula
What three factors do scientists believe are the cause of sexual orientation?
genetic, hormonal, and environmental
What is sexual identity defined as?
individual's conception of themselves
What is one reason that a homosexual would engage in heterosexual behavior?
desire for a perceived traditional family
How does the mental health profession approach efforts to change sexual orientation?
have adopted policy statements
Who was the sexologist that published a scheme in 1896?
Magnus Hirschfeld
What was a concern of the Kinsey scale?
it inappropriately measures heterosexuality and homosexuality
How does research identify sexual population groups?
scales of assessment
What myth did Bruce Voeller perpetuate in the 70's?
that the prevalence of homosexuality is 10% for the whole population
Do men and women's patterns of arousal differ?
men and women have different patterns of arousal
What science terms are used to describe sexual attraction?
Androphilia and gynephilia
What tends to be a major obstacle when comparing cultures?
Translation
Early writers linked orientation to what concept?
the subject's own sex
Who is finding themselves in a double minority in the US?
non-Caucasian LGBT
Can a persons sexual interest change over different times in their life?
Some research suggests that "[f]or some [people] the focus of sexual interest will shift at various points through the life span
When did part of the world health organization release a statement about curing homosexuals?
2012,
What does the Kinsey scale provide a classification for?
sexual orientation based on the relative amounts of heterosexual and homosexual experience or psychic response in one's history at a given time.
What does SASO stand for?
Sell Assessment of Sexual Orientation
How are the three component used to determine sexual orientation?
all three are used independently and provide different conclusions regarding sexual orientation
What have scientists started spending the most time on?
measuring changes in brain activity related to sexual arousal
What can affect how a person is treated?
Perceived sexual orientation
What do the majority of defintions surronding sexual orientation include?
psychological component, such as the direction of an individual's erotic desires, or a behavioral component
Which two studies where created by Alfred C. KInsey?
In the oft-cited and oft-criticized Sexual Behavior in the Human Male (1948) and Sexual Behavior in the Human Female (1953
What idea did Sigmund Freud bring to the table?
Innate bisexuality
Whar words may people use for sexual idenity?
pansexual or polysexual,
What does the American Physocological Association say that sexual orientation refers to?
an enduring pattern of emotional, romantic, and/or sexual attractions to men, women, or both sexes
What does NARTH stand for?
The National Association for Research & Therapy of Homosexuality
What do the terms andophilia and gynephilia help prevent?
confusion and offense when describing people in non-western cultures, as well as when describing intersex and transgender people
What has the KInsey scaled been praised for?
dismissing the dichotomous classification of sexual orientation and allowing for a new perspective on human sexuality.
How many questions does the SASO contain?
12
Has the cause for sexual orientation been found yet?
The exact causes for the development of a particular sexual orientation have yet to be established
What can the scales for sexual orientation be used for?
determining what the prevalence of different sexual orientations are within a population
Which chromosome is responsible for produlcing male differentiation on defect female development?
chromosome Y
Who created on of the earliest sexual classification schemes?
Karl Heinrich Ulrichs
What did both Weinrich and Weinberg critisize the KInsey scale for?
lumping individuals who are different based on different dimensions of sexuality into the same categories.
What questions did Sell consider the most important on the KInsey scale?
those assessing sexual attraction
What reflects the prevalence rates varying?
people's inconsistent responses to the different components of sexual orientation within a study and the instability of their responses over time
Why do researches in homosexual studies argued that it is a social and historical constuction?
Because sexual orientation is complex and multi-dimensional
What do some researchers argue about the idea of sexual orientation?
the concept may not apply similarly to men and women
What does research show about sexual orientation?
is independent of cultural and other social influences
What is a common way to determine a persons sexuality?
according to their sexual role (active/passive; insertive/penetrated)
What do researchers generally believe causes sexual orientation?
a combination of genetic, hormonal, and environmental influences
What concept is sexual orientation argued as?
a concept that evolved in the industrialized West
What does Bruce criticize the labels heterosexual and homsexual as?
confusing and degrading
What can impact accurately assesing sexual identity?
sexual orientation and sexual orientation identity are not distinguished
What does the FBO effect stand for?
fraternal birth order
What other name does the KInsey scale go by?
Heterosexual-Homosexual Rating Scale
What does KSOG stand for?
Klein sexual orientation grid
What are sexual attraction. behavior, and idenity components of?
sexual orientation
Who wrote the paper "Whos Gay? Does It Matter?
Ritch Savin-Williams
What do these studies suggest?
that men and women are different in terms of sexual arousal patterns
What can make a person believe they know someone elses sexual orientation?
perceived characteristics, such as appearance, clothing, tone of voice, and accompaniment by and behavior with other people
What is part of the reason for the varying estimates of the bisexual population?
due to differing definitions of bisexuality.
What do historians and researches argue about concerning the emotional and affectionate activities?
activities associated with sexual-orientation terms such as "gay" and "heterosexual" change significantly over time and across cultural boundaries.
What number was dell on the Fortune 500 list until 2014?
51
What market did Dell ignore at first?
consumer market
What sales model did Dell use for a long time?
direct
What industry was getting smaller?
PC
Which of Dell's processes handles PC assembly, testing, and quality control?
manufacturing
What type of Dell media has appeared on TV, on the internet, and in magazines?
advertisements
What year did Dell make an agreement with Officeworks?
2008
What department did Dell launch an internal investigation on?
accounting
What decade did Dell begin to sell things other than PCs?
1990s
What market made up the majority of Dell's sales?
PC
What decade did Dell's manufacturing process become less efficient?
2000s
What hedge fund group was pressuring EMC into restructuring?
Elliott Management
In what foreign country did Dell open plants in 1995?
Malaysia
Who is the founder of Dell?
Michael Dell
What decade did Dell sell electronics through big box stores?
1990s
What was Dell the first IT company to establish?
product-recycling goal
What decade did Dell switch to PSUs and boards that had differently wired connectors?
1990s
When did Michael Dell found his company?
1984
What did Dell enjoy from 1997 to 2004?
steady growth
What did Dell rely on that gave it a reputation?
supply chain efficiencies
What was the name of Dell's change campaign?
Dell 2.0
How much of Dell's revenue was its PC division?
half
What city is Dell's New Hampshire facility in?
Nashua
What city is Dell's Texas facility in?
Austin
What emissions did Dell strive to reduce?
greenhouse gas
What year did Dell come under fire from the Taiwanese Consumer Protection Commission?
2009
Innovations in what kind of management is Dell known for?
supply chain
What year did Dell plan to sell PCs at retailers?
1993
What year did Michael Dell bring in Lee Walker to the company?
1986
What country's PC market was Dell reliant on?
U.S
Which division of Dell were unsuccessful in developing mobile devices?
mobility
What did Dell have a poor reputation for?
customer service
What year did the Blackstone Group express interest in acquiring Dell?
2013
What year did Dell close its largest Canadian call center?
2008
What type of computing is the combined effort of EMC and Dell slated to address?
private cloud computing
What was the value of Dell's buyout deal?
$24.4 billion
How much space did Dell lease in Texas?
80,000 square feet
What Texas city was Dell's headquarters previously in?
Austin
For what market did Dell make computers for in Ireland?
EMEA
What kind of hardware support does Dell provide?
multivendor
What is the alternate name for the Dell Solution Station?
Dell on Call
What year did Dell lose its tech lead to Hewlett-Packard?
2006
What toxic chemical did Dell set to eliminate from its products?
polyvinyl chloride
What percentage of Dell support calls were transferred?
45%
What does Dell aim to reduce by creating energy efficient products?
external environmental impact
What process begins after a death sentence is handed down at trial?
direct review
In what year was the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act passed?
1996
Who was executed by firing squad on January 17, 1977?
Gary Gilmore
What was a common nickname for the electric chair?
Old Sparky
What state has had only a single execution?
Wisconsin
In the United States, how many murders are there for each execution?
700
What territory's constitution says "The death penalty shall not exist"?
Puerto Rico's
In what year was the death penalty suspended in the US?
1972
What state's law says that death sentences must take place in an "enclosure"?
Connecticut
In what year was Gregg v. Georgia decided?
1976
How many executions occurred in 1999?
98
In November 2008, who was on death penalty without a murder conviction?
Demarcus Sears
When a prisoner is given a death sentence in a state, what is the first step of collateral review?
state collateral review
In what case did the Supreme Court allow Section 1983 to be used to challenge a method of execution?
Hill v. McDonough
How many people were killed in the largest mass execution in US history?
38
What act restricted the scope of federal habeas corpus?
the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996
Along with New Jersey, what state commuted all life sentences when bills to repeal the death penalty were passed?
Illinois
In what court was Bigby v. Dretke decided?
United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
In what year was Tony Chebatoris killed?
1938
Under what federal statute are offenses punished by lethal injection?
Drug Kingpin Act of 1988
In what year did the American Law Institute create a death penalty framework for the Model Penal Code?
1962
In what year was Coker v. Georgia decided?
1977
In what year was Nebraska's death penalty statute ruled unconstitutional by a state court?
2008
What death penalty drug ceased to be manufactured in 2011?
sodium thiopental
In what year did the most polled American support capital punishment?
1994
What is a notable capital crime in Louisiana?
aggravated rape
Along with Marshall, who believed that the Eighth Amendment forbade the death penalty?
William J. Brennan, Jr.
Between 1973 and 2015, how amny prisoners were acquitted or received pardons or commutations of their death sentences due to possible innocence?
156
What percentage of murderers in the United States are given a death sentence?
2.5
Under the Drug Kingpin Act of 1988 and Federal Death Penalty Act of 1994, about how many crimes were punishable by death?
fifty
Who was executed on January 17, 1977?
Gary Gilmore
In what month and year was Troy Davis executed?
September 2011
How many execution methods are currently used in the United States?
five
What percentage of American death row prisoners are African American?
41
In the United States, how many important steps are usually present in the administration of capital punishment?
four
On what date was Fred Adams hanged?
April 2, 1937
What institution does James Liebman work for?
Columbia Law School
Who was executed on March 30, 1960?
James W. Rodgers
About how many American juveniles have been executed since 1642?
364
What state employed Robert Patton in May 2014?
Oklahoma
Along with gender, geography and race, what bias do some opponents of the death penalty see in its administration?
socio-economic
According to Thompson v. Oklahoma, what was the youngest age at which a person might be executed?
Sixteen
In what year did Missouri pass a law stating that executions should be inside of or near a jail?
1919
Who commuted all state capital sentences in 1986?
Toney Anaya
Along with South Dakota, what state rejected a death penalty abolition bill in 2010?
Kansas
How many drugs are used to administer lethal injection?
three
Who attached a Game & Watch D-pad to the Famicom prototype?
Katsuyah Nakawaka
What was the abbreviation for Nintendo Entertainment System?
NES
In June 1989 who was Nintendo of America's vice president of marketing?
Peter Main
Which cartridges were shaped slightly differently?
Japanese (Famicom)
With the NES at its end, which competing consoles with less strict licensing terms were supported?
Sega Genesis and then the PlayStation
Who caused Nintendo to take formal action regarding rentals?
Blockbuster Video
Which company distributed the NES to the UK, Italy, and Australia?
Mattel
What were the two turbo controllers Nintendo made for the NES?
NES Advantage and the NES Max
What year did Nintendo release the Famicom Disk System?
1986
When was the system originally supposed to be released?
spring of 1985
Where was the system released to two separate marketing areas?
Europe and Australia
Which example of a system started to mark the end of the NES dominance?
16-bit Sega Mega Drive/Genesis
Who did Atari attempt to force ceasing production of games for its system?
Activision
Companies did what in an effort to circumvent Nintendo's console authentication?
voltage spike to temporarily disable the 10NES chip
What is the abbreviation of Nintendo Entertainment System?
NES
What was the console's most common problem?
blinking red power light
How many units of the Famicom were sold in Japan by the beginning of 1985?
2.5 million units
Which console featured a top-loading design?
NES 2
What year did Nintendo's market surpass all computer software?
1988
Nintendo charged producers hefty sums to make what?
FDS games
Which company produced the Twin Famicom and the 19SC111 TV?
Sharp Corporation
The Zelda games were manufactured in what color cartridge?
gold
What was Nintendo accused of?
antitrust behavior
What was the first NES emulator?
Pasofami
What did the Famicom sorely lack?
lockout hardware
Who designed the Famicom system?
Masayuki Uemura
What was the light gun controller called?
Zapper
What year did the video game market crash?
1983
How much was the selling price equivalent to in today's money?
$475
What thrived after the NES was discontinued?
unlicensed clone market
Nintendo produced toys and what other item before its game system?
playing card
Atari created NES products under which name?
Tengen
What month and year did the Famicom receive a redesign?
December 1993
Who developed Nintendo's PPU?
Ricoh
Nintendo agreed with Atari to release the Famicom under what name?
Nintendo Advanced Video Gaming System
What was Nintendo's euphemism for "video game system?"
Entertainment System
How were the Famicom controllers attached to the console?
hardwired
When did Sega finally permit third-party publishing?
summer 1988
What does ZIF stand for?
zero insertion force
To address the shoddy hardware, what popped up across the United States?
Nintendo Authorized Repair Centers
The HVC-001 featured which kind of mod output?
radio frequency (RF)
How many pins did the controller ports have on the NES?
7
What was the name of the NES clone produced in Taiwan?
Dendy
How much does the NES unit weigh in pounds?
11.7
According to Sergio DellaPergola, what percent of Jews worldwide do Ashkenazi Jews's make up?
74%
In which tractate of the Babylonian Talmud is the name Gomer given as Germania?
Yoma
Who expelled the Jews from his Merovingian kingdom in 629?
King Dagobert I of the Franks
What percentage of Israeli Jews are people of Ashkenazi descent?
47.5%
Culturally, an Ashkenazi Jew can be identified by what concept?
Yiddishkeit
For what period of time were the Ashkenazim a reproductively isolated population in Europe?
For roughly a thousand years
In the past have relations between Ashkenazim and Sephardim tended to be warm or cold?
have not always been warm
What percentage of the modern Ashkenazi genome could possibly be of European origin?
35 to 55 percent
Genetic studies on Ashkenazim have found a significant prevalence of what type of origins?
ancient Levantine origins
The custom of designating areas of Jewish settlement with biblical names meant that Spain was referred to as what?
Sefarad
Did Charlemagne's expansion of the Frankish empire bring about a brief period of upheaval or stability in Francia?
a brief period of stability
The lack of assimilation of Jews in central and eastern Europe lies in part to the fact that they lived almost exclusively in what?
shtetls
Who noted that Ashkenazi Jews lived in Jerusalem during the 11th century?
Rabbi Elijah of Chelm
At the beginning of World War II, about how many Jews lived in Europe?
8.8 million
For religious Jews, what does Minhagim mean?
customs
Most of the Ashkenazi Jews moved away from Europe either immigrating to North America, or other English speaking areas but most to which place?
Israel
A 2006 study found Ashkenazi Jews to be a what?
a clear, homogeneous genetic subgroup
What percentage of the US population is comprised of Ashkenazi Jews?
2%
Researcher Gil Atzmon suggests that Ashkenazim branched off from other Jews around the time of what?
the destruction of the First Temple
A 2001 study by Nebel et al. showed that which two populations share the same overall paternal Near Eastern ancestries?
Ashkenazi and Sephardic Jewish populations
In the late Middle Ages, the Ashkenazi population shifted in which direction?
shifted steadily eastward
The name of Ashkenazi derives from which biblical figure?
Ashkenaz
Recent studies have found that contemporary Jews (excluding Indian and Ethiopian Jews) have a close genetic relationship to the people of what area?
the Levant
The history of Jews in Greece goes back to which era?
Archaic Era of Greece
According to Daniel Elazar at the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, at the end of the 11th century, what percentage of the world's Jewry was Sephardic?
97%
In Israel, the term Ashkenazi is now used in what manner?
in a manner unrelated to its original meaning
By tradition, when a Sephardic or Mizrahi woman marries into an Orthodox or Haredi Ashkenazi Jewish family she raises her children to be which type of Jew?
Ashkenazi Jews
When did the Dreyfus affair occur?
1890s
What is the Siddur?
prayer book
How many types of genetic origin testing currently exist?
three types of genetic origin testing
A 2006 study by Behar et al, suggested that what percentage of the current Ashkenazi population was descended from "founder lineages"?
40%
When did the idea that the Ashkenazi may have come from Khazar stock come about?
in the later 19th century
Grave site excavations near where Roman garrisons were established attest to the presence of Jews after what centuries?
the 2nd and 3rd centuries
What year marked the onset of the Crusades?
1095
What is the name of the Rabbi mentioned in relation to the Genesis Rabbah?
Rabbi Berechiah
After emigration from the west, did Jewish communities in places like Poland have a stable or unstable sociopolitical environment?
a comparatively stable socio-political environment
Religious Ashkenazi Jews living in Israel follow the authority of whom in certain matters?
the chief Ashkenazi rabbi
What two things were mentioned as contributing to bringing younger Jews together in North American cities?
social trends such as the chavurah movement, and the emergence of "post-denominational Judaism"
Most people with the surname Ashkenazi, hail from which particular community?
Syrian Jewish community
It was found that the Y-chromosome of Ashkenazi and Sephardic Jews contained mutations that are also common with what other people?
Middle Eastern peoples
A 2013 study estimates that what percentage of Ashkenazi maternal ancestry comes from women indigenous to Europe?
80 percent
In a 2010 study, which two groups were identified by principal component, phylogenetic, and identity by descent analysis?
Middle Eastern Jews and European/Syrian Jews
How many geneticists carried out the 2013 trans-genome study?
30 geneticists
The most well supported theory on the origins of the Ashkenazim is one that details a Jewish migration through which modern day country?
through what is now Italy
Jewish communities were seen north of the Alps and Pyrenees as early as which centuries?
8th and 9th century
When did Hai Gaon refer to questions that had been addressed to him from Ashkenaz?
the first half of the 11th century
When did France expel its original Jewish population?
the Middle Ages
All studies agree that genetic overlap with what location exists in both lineages?
Fertile Crescent
What year did David Goldstein report that unlike male Ashkenazi lineages, the female lineages in Ashkenazi Jewish communities did not seem to be Middle Eastern?
2002
In a 2006 study, how many autosomal SNPs were used?
five thousand
Who was the twentieth bishop of Alexandria?
Saint Athanasius of Alexandria
In what year was Athanasius consecrated?
326
Where did Athanasius remain for 6 years while living as a monk?
Upper Egypt
Who succeeded Emperor Constantius?
Julian
What party benefited from the accession of Valens?
Arian
Who wrote the biography entitled Life of Antony?
Athanasius
Athanasius began his leading role at what age?
27
Were the pretend baptisms real?
the baptisms were genuine
Where was persecution of Christianity the worst?
in the East
What made Arius's belief about Jesus different from Alexander's?
Son (Logos) of God, made, not begotten
Who did Athanasius succeed?
Alexander
Where is Gaul currently located?
Belgium / Holland and surrounding areas
In what year did Pope Julius die?
352
Who had a policy of condemning Athanasius?
the Arians
Where did bishops of the West meet?
Rimini in Italy
What position did Ecdicius hold?
Prefect of Egypt
When did he write his first works on Orthodox Christianity?
before the Arian controversy
What did he do when he thought he might be made Bishop?
fled
Was Athanasius well liked by everyone?
many detractors
What was he known as soon after he died?
Pillar of the Church
What was Alexandria known for?
important trade center
What famous event happened in 303?
Maximian persecution
Did the followers of Meletius obey the guidelines of Nicaea?
failed to abide
Did Athanasius speak Greek?
knew Greek
Who did he have to thank for his ability to come back to Alexandria in 345?
Constans
What did Athanasius do to avoid speaking to Alexander on his deathbed?
fled
Who tried to bribe Liberius?
Constantius
At what point could Athanasius return to Alexandria?
When Emperor Constantine I died
Why did the Bishops condemn Athanasius?
threats of the Emperor
What happened to Bishop George?
murder
What Christian beliefs did Emperor Valens adhere to?
Arian
Who standardized the books of the New Testament?
Athanasius
Did Athanasius feel that it was important to believe that Jesus was the Son of God?
not optional but necessary
How did the people  know that Alexander had chosen Athanasius as his successor?
thrice repeating his name
Which of the Gospels most agrees with Athanasius?
Gospel of John
Did all Arians believe the same things?
different theological views
To what golden event was Seattle the portal?
Klondike Gold Rush
Of which Washington county is Seattle the center?
King County
What group of settlers established a site at Pioneer Square?
Denny Party
At what date did the name Seattle first appear on official papers?
May 23, 1853
What was the industry source that produced Seattle's first financial vigor?
lumber
After lumbering, what was Seattle's second big economic boom?
Klondike Gold Rush
During WWII what company added substantially to Seattle's economy?
Boeing aircraft
What type of theater did Alexander Pantages start in Seattle?
vaudeville
When did Boeing move its headquarters to Chicago?
2001
When was ship building the economic master in Seattle?
World War I
What violent act happened in Seattle's Chinatown in 1983?
Wah Mee massacre
What sporting event did Seattle sponsor in 1990?
Goodwill Games
What water mass is located west of Seattle?
Puget Sound
What large company moved its headquarters to South Lake Union in Seattle?
Amazon.com
What hazardous geologic area does Seattle inhabit?
Pacific Ring of Fire
What other famous city, besides Seattle, lies on seven hills?
Rome
What is the average rainfall in Seattle? 
37.49 inches
During which month does Seattle get more precipitation than other US cities?
November
What does the local water ways regulate in the Seattle area?
Temperature extremes
What is a very significant part of Seattle's weather system?
Puget Sound Convergence Zone
What type of snowfall is not often seen in Seattle?
heavy snow
What is Seattle's average December temperature? 
40.6 °F
What quantity of yearly rainfall does Seattle have during the winter?
half
How many more people does Seattle expect to have by 2040?
200,000
How much did Seattle's foreign born population expand between 1990-2000?
40%
In 1960, what was the percentage of whites in the Seattle area?
91.6%
How many of the Fortune 500 companies are based in Seattle?
Four
Before they moved to Chicago, what was the biggest company headquartered in Seattle?
Boeing
What was Seattle's gross product in 2010?
$231 billion
By a UCLA study,how many Seattle residents identify as gay, lesbian or bisexual?
12.9%
How many theater companies does Seattle have in residence?
around 100
How old is Seattle's Symphony Orchestra?
century
What is Seattle's present nickname?
Emerald City
What Seattle fair lasts 24 days?
Seattle International Film Festival
When did Seattle host the national Poetry Slam Tournament?
2001
What genre of music are Nirvana and Soundgarden?
grunge
When did the first art gallery open in Washington state?
1927
What anime convention is held in Seattle?
Sakura-Con
What was the first American hockey team to win a Stanley Cup?
PCHA's Seattle Metropolitans
How many times have the Seattle Seahawks played in the World Series?
three
What is Seattle thought to be politically?
liberal
How many people in Seattle vote Democratic?
over 80%
Of what Congressional district is Seattle a part?
7th congressional district
What percentage of the Seattle population has a bachelor's degree?
53.8%
What type of radio stations abound in Seattle?
Non-commercial
What is the Seattle newspaper as of 2010?
The Seattle Times
What is Seattle's bus line called?
King County Metro
What kind of hospital is Seattle Children's?
pediatric referral center
What machine caused the end of city rail lines in Seattle?
automobile
What is mainly used for transportation in Seattle?
streets
What educational institution is at home in Seattle?
University of Washington
On what type of transportation system has Seattle begun to focus?
mass transit
Which three processes does phychology recognize as memory?
process in which information is encoded, stored, and retrieved.
What does short-term memory depend on?
an acoustic code for storing information, and to a lesser extent a visual code.
What is another name for short-term memory?
working memory.
Why can't some memories be held onto forever?
The storage in sensory memory and short-term memory generally has a strictly limited capacity and duration
What are some examples of units that short-term memory can be categorized in to?
visual information and acoustic information
Which part of the brain does short-term memory seem to rely on?
frontal lobe (especially dorsolateral prefrontal cortex) and the parietal lobe
How long does sensory  memory to to store information?
less than one second
How does short term memory encode information?
acoustically
Why do infants and young childrens memories need to be assesed differently?
do not have the language ability to report on their memories
What are some catgories of retrospective memory?
semantic, episodic and autobiographical memory
Was Hebb's thought of the relationship between short and long term memory true?
research showed this to be false
Is it important to know how information is coded in the brain?
that is crucial
What do cognitive neuroscientists believe memory is?
the retention, reactivation, and reconstruction of the experience-independent internal representation
What is another term for procedural memory?
implicit memory
Which model explains why bob has an easier time reading a book, and then discussing it rather than reading two books?
working memory model
What do most elderly people worry about?
memory loss,
Does a 6 month old have short term memory?
can recall information over the short-term
When remembering your first day of school or first dance, which memory are you using?
Episodic memories
What can cause your memory to deterioriate or not work as well?
Stress
What trouble can interference cause?
can hamper memorization and retrieval
In 1960 did people believe an infant was able to remember things?
Up until the middle of the 1980s it was assumed that infants could not encode, retain, and retrieve information.
What role does the amygdala play in memory?
thought to be involved in emotional memory
Does it matter how long someone is exposed to stress to have an impact on their memory?
the more impact it may have. However, short term exposure to stress also causes impairment in memory by interfering with the function of the hippocampus
What neurons are damaged during stressful events?
The CA1 neurons found in the hippocampus
Does sleep hurt a persons memory?
There have been several studies which show that sleep improves the retention of memory,
Can one increase their brain efficency?
people can improve cognitive function and brain efficiency
What is a term to describe memory loss?
amnesia.
Does excersice have any role on cognitive brain function?
has many cognitive benefits and effects on the brain.
What can impact memory performance in a positive way?
when material is linked to the learning context,
What can cause a person to have fake memories?
repeatedly imagine actions that they have never performed or events that they have never experienced
What has research shown about our memories?
our memories are constructed
What is the most widely used way in learing?
Rote learning
When was the first federal population census taken in the US?
1790
The Census Bureau had gone from two categories to how many by the 1990s?
more than a dozen
Americans with African ancestry have always been classified as what race?
black (historically) or African American
What is the effect of there no longer being a stigma on interracial marriage?
more people are openly forming interracial unions
What were put in place to prevent the mix of races?
Anti-miscegenation laws
When did the numbers of free people of color increase dramatically?
After the American Revolutionary War
What is the one-drop rule?
defining as black, persons with any known African ancestry
Approximentally how many Americans identified themselves as multiracial in the 2010 US census?
In the 2010 US census, approximately 9 million individuals, or 2.9% of the population, self-identified as multiracial.
What occured from 1955 to 1968?
The African-American Civil Rights Movement
Who were considered "white Indians"?
Europeans living among Indigenous Americans
When could white women and black men be in a union?
In the colonial years
Who were not identified by name on the census before the civil war?
slaves
Who brought Christian missionaries to Hawaii?
traders
Who are blamed in this paragraph for Jim Crow laws?
white Democrats
A person is not a member of a racial minority if ancetry does not what?
exceed one-fourth
Who says genetic tests can't tell the difference between different Native American nations?
Geneticists
How do some mixed raced people feel?
marginalized by U.S. society
What usually played a larger role than laws regarding a person's race?
social acceptance
The President's father is from what country?
Kenya
When did multiracial people start to organize for more inclusive racial identifiers?
In the 1980s
What determined a child's social identity?
the tribe's kinship system
Who was a doctor?
Charles Eastman
Who said many African Americans have NAtive American heritage?
Sherrel W. Stewart
What jobs did the earliest Europeans who mingled with natives hold?
explorers and soldiers
President Thomas Jefferson had a relationship with who?
Sally Hemings
As an example, whose status was downgraded after the civil war?
traditionally free people of color in Louisiana
Where did most Chinese men enter the US?
primarily on the West Coast and in western territories
What office is responsible for the census form changes?
the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
What was the result of a child having an African mother?
born into slavery
Why did Steele think people were not attacking Barrack Obama?
Because he has no slave blood in him
When was the wedding of Rolfe and Pocahontas?
April 5, 1614
What has helped geneologists researching slaves?
Colonial records of French and Spanish slave ships and sales, and plantation records in all the former colonies
Who did colonists ask for help in returning runaway slaves?
Indigenous American tribes
What did the laws passed in the 17th century do?
gave children the social status of their mother
What are many Latin American migrants?
mestizo, Amerindian, or other mixed race
Before 1920, how would a person be white by law?
if having seven-eights or more white ancestry
Who wrote an article in the New York Dail News about Obama?
Stanley Crouch
What does the "mixture" heading mean?
cannot be racially categorized
What is considered to be neglected in American history?
Interracial relations between Indigenous Americans and African Americans
Who is related to Bliss Broyard?
Anatole Broyard
When did people lobby for allowing more than one category to be selected on legal forms?
the 1980s
Who married Sacagewea?
French trapper Toussaint Charbonneau
What brought African Americans together?
the one-drop rule
What stock character lived with her white father until he left the picture?
"tragic octoroon"
Who identified the active substance?
John Abel
Who developed Amphetamine?
Smith, Kline and French
What is diabetes caused from?
absence of a substance normally produced by the pancreas
What is phenobarbital used for?
epilepsy
Who developed Arsphenamine?
Paul Ehrlich and chemist Alfred Bertheim
When was Morphine and Quinine first available?
mid 1800s
Who received the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1939?
Gerhard Domagk
Who created the first rabies vaccine?
Louis Pasteur and Pierre Paul Émile Roux
Who manufactured "Elixir Sulfanilamide"?
S.E. Massengill Company
When was the first effective treatment for Tuberculosis discovered?
1943
When was the Polio vaccine created?
1954
How much was the settlement GlaxoSmithKline agree to?
$3 billion
What is the speculation of the relationship between doctors and the drug industry?
become fully transparent.
What disease had the biggest decline of deaths?
tuberculosis
How much did treatment for each patient in Africa cost?
10,000 and 15,000 USD per patient per year
What Act forbade misbranded drugs?
Pure Food and Drugs Act
Who adopted the Doha Declaration?
World Trade Organization
How much money was recovered through the False Claims?
$2.5 billion
What drugs reduce the risk of death and other events in people with high blood pressure?
thiazide antihypertensive drugs
Who put out a report in 2012?
President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology
Who discovered Hydralazine?
researchers at Ciba
What act needed provisions?
FD&C
What did the first measles prevent in it's first 20 years?
an estimated 52 million cases of the disease, 17,400 cases of mental retardation, and 5,200 deaths
When did the Kefauver-Harris Amendment become a law?
10 October 1962
How many Americans were given the drug Kevadon?
Over 20,000
What law prohibited birth control?
Comstock laws
Who received the Laser-Debakey Clinical Medical Research Aware?
Endo
What is a drug discovery?
the process by which potential drugs are discovered or designed
How much does it cost to develop a new drug?
about 1.3 billion
What drugs are the least expensive to develop?
those based on re-formulation of an existing active ingredient
Why was Mevastatin never marketed?
adverse effects of tumors, muscle deterioration, and sometimes death
How much did Pfizer settle the illegal marketing suit for?
$301 million
Who were some of the companies that encouraged the interactions between doctors and the pharmaceutical industry?
World Economic Forum, the Gates Foundation, the Wellcome Trust, and the Food and Drug Administration
Who conduced an investigation on doctors?
ProPublica
Why are collaborative agreements important?
to explore the potential of new drug substances
Who is the core guide?
The British National Formulary
What is subject to the Orphan Drug Act?
diseases involving fewer than 200,000 patients in the United States, or larger populations in certain circumstances
Who argued against regulators?
Ben Goldacre
NICE decides the availability of drugs in which two countries?
England and Wales
How much money did the top ten bestselling drugs make in 2013?
$75.6 billion
How long do drug exclusivity rights usually last?
20 years
The safety and efficacy of new drugs must be approved by what organization in the US?
Food and Drug Administration
"Drug reps" are usually hired by what type of firms?
Pharmaceutical companies
Drug reps have been accused of giving what to health professionals?
'gifts' and biased information
In what year CE did the Second Muslim Civil War end?
692
In what year was Ali killed?
661
What form of tax were Christians required to pay?
jizya
How many major Islamic caliphates existed after Muhammad's death?
four
When did Muawiyah become caliph?
661
What opposition movement was based in Arabia and Basra?
Kharijites
What is another term for the Umayyads?
Banu Abd-Shams
Where did Muawiyah fight Ali?
Battle of Siffin
Who was the second caliph?
Umar
How many top leaders of the Umayyads were killed in the Battle of Badr?
three
What tax did non-Muslims pay in the Umayyad period?
jizyah
When did Uthman die?
656
What group murdered Uthman ibn al-Affan?
Egyptians
Where did Ibn al-Zubayr flee to in 680?
Mecca
When did Muhammad bin Wasim sail to Pakistan?
712
Where was the Dome of the Rock built?
Jerusalem
Who was the son of Sarjun?
John of Damascus
Who was the son of Yazid?
Muawiya II
Who was the father of Abd al-Malik?
Marwan
Who appointed the governors in the Umayyad empire?
khalifah
What was the main city of Tokharistan?
Balkh
What group were the Hashimiyya a sect of?
Kaysanites Shia
When did the Umayyads begin to occupy Iberia?
711
Who was the father of Hisham?
Abd al-Malik
What was the name of Muawiyah's wife?
Maysum
What Umayyad ruler is regarded as especially just and pious by Sunni scholars?
Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz
Who became leader of the Khurasan Hashimiyya in approximately 746?
Abu Muslim
In the later Abbasid era, what branch of Islam did Iran adhere to?
Sunni
What is the meaning of the term Kurdus in English?
cohort
Who first brought a postal service into Umayyad lands?
Mu'awiyah
What nation lost the Battle of Yarmouk?
Byzantine
What were non-Muslim groups under the Umayyads called?
dhimmis
What is another name for people who recently converted to Islam?
mawali
What Christian saint was also an Umayyad administrator?
John of Damascus
What Arabic term did the Umayyad caliphs use to refer to themselves?
khalifat Allah
What is another term for asphalt?
bitumen
What group initially made use of asphalt?
indigenous peoples
What is used asphalt turned back into?
new pavement mixtures
How many asphalt upgraders operate in Alberta?
five
About what temperature is asphalt shipped?
150 °C
What ancient group used bitumen extraction?
Romans
What is the last origination of the word asphalt?
late Middle English
How are the words bitumen and asphalt frequently used?
interchangeably
From where does most asphalt come?
petroleum
What is the name of the world's greatest deposit of bitumen?
Athabasca oil sands
In what early technology was bitumen used?
photographic
When did Richard Tappin Claridge patent asphalt for use in pavement?
25 November 1837
Since what date has asphalt been used for road paving in the US?
1870
In what year was asphalt used for uses aside from road paving?
1838
Who experimented with bitumen extraction techniques to make shipping easier?
Sidney Ells
What property of bitumen makes it difficult to move through pipelines?
extremely viscous
What does mixing bitumen with water create?
emulsion
Where is naturally occurring bitumen in rock being developed as a feed stock for petroleum production?
Alberta, Canada
Besides fuels and paving, what accounts for most of the other use of bitumen?
Roofing shingles
What language originated the word bitumen?
Sanskrit
To what similar substance can asphalt be confused?
coal tar
Who described the use of bitumen and pitch to tar ships?
Pierre Belon
In what year did Claridge acquire patents for the use of asphalt?
1838
For what  did Canadian natives use asphalt as a waterproofing material?
canoes
How much additional binder does rolled asphalt concrete have?
5%
What is done to crude bitumen to promote its movement through pipelines?
diluted
To what is the organic matter in asphalt similar?
meteorites
What component is added to bitumen to improve it?
Selenizza
To what type of aggregate did asphalt used to refer?
mixture
What pigment did 19th century artists use that was deemed unfavorably?
Bitumen
Which of Claridge's two tar macadams was the more successful?
Clarmac
What is the biggest use of asphalt?
road surfaces
What is synthetic crude oil usually called?
syncrude
How many tons of bitumen ere produced in 1984?
40,000,000
To what location is Selenizza bitumen native?
Selenice, in Albania
By what means can humans be exposed to bitumen?
fumes or skin
Who did Victoria marry?
Prince Albert
Who was extremely protective over Victoria?
mother
Who was Victoria's eighth child?
Leopold
During which year did Victoria's mother die?
1861
Who shot at the queen?
Roderick Maclean
What year did Gladstone return to power?
1892
Which two people helped lift Victoria's body into the coffin?
Edward VII, the Kaiser and Prince Arthur, Duke of Connaught
Who was considered Victoria's best and kindest advisor?
uncle Leopold
What did the Queen commission Sir Robert Peel to do?
to form a new ministry
Which two countries was Victoria trying to improve relations between?
France and Britain
Where was Orsini from?
Britain
Who died in 1865?
Palmerston
How many kings and princes were invited to the Golden Jubilee?
50
Who was the first reigning monarch from Britain to set foot in Spain?
Victoria
How tall was Queen Victoria?
no more than five feet tall
In 1830, what part of England did Victoria travel to with Dutchess of Kent and Conroy?
the centre of England
Who was in charge of the Governemnt at the time of Victorias ascession?
Lord Melbourne
What year was the potato blight in Ireland?
1845
When Victoria isolated herself from the public, what movement began to grow?
the republican movement
What year was the Indian Rebellion?
1857
What year did Victoria fall down the stairs at Windsor?
1883
What blood clotting disease did Victorias youngest son have?
haemophilia B
Who was Queen Victorias father?
Prince Edward, Duke of Kent and Strathearn, the fourth son of King George III
What was Victorias place in line of succession to the throne when she was born?
fifth
On what date did Victoria turn 18?
24 May 1837
What was the marital status of Victoria when she became the queen?
unmarried
What was the name of the man that tried to shoot Queen Victoria?
John Francis
What political party was Russells ministry?
Whig
Who did Victorias eldest daughter marry?
Prince Frederick William of Prussia
Who was Queen Victorias father?
Prince Edward, Duke of Kent and Strathearn
The Dutchesses brother Leopold was the King of what country?
the Belgians
What health issue did Flora hastings develope that began to ruin Victorias reputation?
an abdominal growth
What year was the Third French Republic established?
1870
What year was Queen Victorias first pregnancy?
1840
Who did Victoria try to convince Disraeli  to act against during the Russo-Turkish war?
Russia
who was britains closest ally since the Crimean war?
Napoleon III
What was the name of the manservent that Victoria had in the 1860's?
John Brown
Where did Victoria spend the Christmas of 1900?
Osborne House
What Act did Disraeli push through Parliment in 1876?
Royal Titles Act 1876
What kind of monarchy was formed under Queen Victoria?
modern constitutional monarchy
What year did Gladstone resign?
1885
How many words a day did Victoria write?
average of 2,500
What concept determines relationships between Grand Lodges?
Recognition
When did ceremonial regalia first appear in the Masonic culture?
The fifteenth century
Why did the Grand Orient de France conclude that Freemasonry shouldn't require religious belief?
Freemasonry was not a religion
When were the first constitutions for Freemasonry printed?
during the 1720s
What are some Protestant objections to Freemasonry?
mysticism, occultism, and even Satanism
What put English Freemasonry at risk?
Parliamentary proclamation
What are two things that anit-masonry usually associated with?
antisemitism and anti-Zionism
What do most masonic rituals consist of?
degree ceremonies
When did English Freemasonry arrive in France?
the 1720s
Why was the Centre de Liasion et d'information des Puissances maconniques signataires de l'Appel de Strasbourg set up?
provides a forum for most of these Grand Lodges and Grand Orients worldwide
Whao has always opposed Freemasonry?
the Roman Catholic Church
What action is forbid by the Orthodox Greek Church to Freemasons?
cannot partake of the Eucharist
What belief is required of a candidate by the Grand Lodge?
belief in a Supreme Being
What is Exclusive Jurisdiction?
only one Grand Lodge will be recognised in any geographical area
From what centuries are the earliest passwords and rituals of Freemasonry known?
17th–18th
Why was Prince Hall Freemasonry formed?
refusal of early American lodges to admit African-Americans
When was Maria Deraismes initiated into Freemasonry?
1882
What do Islamic anti-masonics link Freemasonry to?
al-Masih ad-Dajjal (the false Messiah
How many Freemasons are believed to have been killed under Hitler's Nazi Regime?
between 80,000 and 200,000
Where are the origins of Freemasonry?
local fraternities of stonemasons
How are Freemasons invited to join a lodge?
they are never invited
How large is the membership of Freemasonry?
around six million worldwide
Are masons allowed to divulge the secrets of each degree?
Masons swear at each degree to keep the contents of that degree secret
Where were the earliest known American Logdes located?
Pennsylvania
How long have Masonic Lodges been in Iraq?
as early as 1917
When was the United Grand Lodge of England Formed?
1813
In what year was a new code to the Canon Law issued by the church?
1983
Judges and police officers had to disclose their Freemason membership in what years in England?
from 1999 to 2009
What is the basic organizational unit of Freemasonry?
The Masonic Lodge
When does a candidate swear to fullfil his obligations as a Mason?
During the ceremony of initiation
What concept is based on adherence to Masonic Landmarks, basic membership requirements, and tenets and rituals of the craft?
Regularity
All Freemasons are progressively initiated, passed, and raised in three degrees of what?
Craft, or Blue Lodge Masonry
The Grand Lodge of England is also know as what?
GLE
When did North American Masonic lodges recognize members of the Prince Hall Lodge?
By the 1980s
When did the French try to create co-masonic lodges?
the 1890s
What English Archbishop was a member of the Freemasons?
Geoffrey Fisher
Freemasonry was linked to scandal in Italy due to what?
Propaganda Due lodge
When did the UN recommend the Partition Plan?
29 November 1947
What is the official State of Israel?
Israel
What was the population of Israel in 2016?
8,476,600
Israel defines itself as what?
Jewish and democratic state
Who was Moses?
a great-great grandson of Jacob
What is the "Land of Israel" known as in Hebrew?
Eretz Yisrael
When does the first record of the name Israel occurs?
Merneptah stele
When did the kingdom split?
930 BCE
Who conquered Judah?
King Nebuchadnezzar II
When did the conflict between Judeans and Greeks erupt?
167 BCE
When did the Jewish presence dwindle in the region?
132 CE
Who did the Jewish inhabitants fight side by side with?
Fatimid garrison
When did Maimonides visit Jerusalem?
1165
When was the Jewish community strengthened by rabbis?
1211
When was control passed to the Mamluk sultans of Egypt?
1260
Many Jews have aspired to return to where?
Zion
What was the first wave of modern Jewish migration to Ottoman-ruled Palestine known as?
First Aliyah
When did the Second Aliyah begin?
after the Kishinev pogrom
What is the Jewish Legion?
a group primarily of Zionist volunteers
How many Jews did the Third and Fourth Aliyahs bring to Palestine?
100,000
What country experienced conflict with the Jewish community after World War II?
Britain
What is the UNSCOP?
United Nations Special Committee on Palestine
What four Arab countries entered British Mandatory Palestine?
Egypt, Syria, Transjordan and Iraq
Who aided the immigration to Israel?
Israeli Immigration Department
The population of Israel rose from 800,000 to what between 1948 and 1958?
two million
What were temporary camps known as?
ma'abarot
When did Egypt close the Suez Canal to Israel?
1950
Who refused toe recognize Israel?
Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser
Where was the massacre of the Israeli athletes?
1972 Summer Olympics in Munich
When did the Egyptian and Syrian armies launch a surprise attack against Israeli forces?
6 October 1973
Where did Anwar El Sadat make a trip to?
Israel
When did the Coastal Road Massacre occur?
11 March 1978
When did Israel annex the Golan Heights?
1981
When did the Israeli air force destroy Iraq's sole nuclear reactor?
7 June 1981
When did the First Intifada break out?
1987
Who became the Prime Minister in 1992?
Yitzhak Rabin
Who led Israel in the 1990s?
Benjamin Netanyahu
Who visited the Temple Mount?
Ariel Sharon
When did the Israeli Air Force destroy a nuclear reactor in Syria?
6 September 2007
Where does the Jordan Rift Valley lie?
East of the central highlands
What river runs along the Jordan Rift Valley?
Jordan River
What is the result of tectonic movements within the Dead Sea Transform?
Jordan Rift Valley
When did the most catastrophic earthquakes occur?
31 BCE, 363, 749, and 1033 CE
What kind of climate does Tel Aviv have?
Mediterranean
Israel developed what?
various water-saving technologies
What was Israel's population in 2016?
8,476,600
How many Israeli citizens lived in West Bank settlements?
over 300,000
What's the homeland for Jewish people?
Israel
What are the two official languages of Israel?
Hebrew and Arabic
Muslims make up how much of the Israel's population?
16%
What incorporates the Western Wall and the Temple Mount?
Old City
What was Israel ranked among OECD countries?
second
What is the school expectancy in Israel?
15.5 years
How many public universities does Israel have?
Israel
Israel operates under what kind of system?
parliamentary
What kind of court system does Israel have?
three-tier
What legal traditions does Israel combine?
English common law, civil law, and Jewish law
The State of Israel is divided into how many administrative districts?
six
How many metropolitan areas are there?
three
Who declared the annexation of the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem?
UN Security Council
Israel views East Jerusalem as what?
sovereign territory
When was the West Bank annexed by Jordan?
1950
The Gaza Strip was occupied by who from 1948 to 1967?
Egypt
How many countries does Israel maintain diplomatic relations?
158
Who were the first two countries to recognize the State of Israel?
United States and the Soviet Union
How much did Germany pay in reparations to the Israeli state?
25 billion euros
When did Turkey and Israel establish full diplomatic relations?
1991
When did India establish full diplomatic ties with Israel?
1992
How much does Israel spend on foreign aid?
less than 0.1%
How many delegations of IDF search and rescue units between 1985 and 2015?
24
What is the sole military wing of the Israeli security forces?
Israel Defense Forces
What age are most Israelis drafted into the military?
18
The military relies on what?
high-tech weapons systems
Israel is widely believed to possess what?
nuclear weapons
What two countries have a higher defense spending to GDP ratio than Israel?
Oman and Saudi Arabia
Who is considered the most advanced country in Southwest Asia?
Israel
Imports to Israel totaled what in 2012?
$77.59 billion
Israel is a leading country of what development?
solar energy
What investor bought Iscar?
Warren Buffett
What are the days of working in Israel?
Sunday through Thursday
Israeli universities rank where in mathematics?
100
How much is Israel's water technology industry worth?
$2 billion a year
How many homes in Israel use solar energy for hot water?
Over 90%
What coordinates with all Israeli space research programs?
Israeli Space Agency
How many kilometers of paved roads does Israel have?
18,096
What is the country's main hub for international air travel?
Ben Gurion International Airport
What is an important industry in Israel?
Tourism
Where does Israel's diverse culture stem from?
diversity of its population
Israeli literature is primarily written in what?
Hebrew
Shmuel Yosef Agnon shared the Nobel Prize with who in 1966?
Nelly Sachs
What Israeli orchestra has been in operation for more than seventy years?
Israel Philharmonic Orchestra
What the nation's canonical folk songs known as?
Songs of the Land of Israel
What internationally acclaimed violin virtuoso is from Israel?
Taiseer Elias
What is one of Israel's most important culturural institutions?
The Israel Museum in Jerusalem
When was Israeli fusion cuisine first developed?
1948
What styles of cooking has Israeli cuisine adopted?
Mizrahi, Sephardic, and Ashkenazi
What are the most popular spectator sports in Israel?
association football and basketball
When did Israel host and win the Asian Nations Cup?
1964
What's a leading sport in Israel?
Chess
What mathematician advance Greek Science?
Greek Science
What is a common Attic-based dialect?
Koine Greek
When was the final defeat of the Ptolemaic Kingdom?
31 BC
Who wrote Geschichte des Hellenismus?
J. G. Droysen
How much of the conquered world was affected by Greek influences?
Some
What is the earliest, most credible source of the Hellenistic period?
Polybius
When did Diodorus Siculus write Bibliotheca historica?
60 and 30 BCE
When was the Peloponnesian War?
431–404 BC
When did King Philip the II annex Thessaly and Magnesia?
352 BC
Who was Philip Arrhidaues' half brother?
Alexander
Who did Diadochi plan to marry?
Cleopatra
When did Antipater die?
319 BC
How many talents did Diadochi steal from Ectabana, Persepolis and Susa?
25,000
Which son did Antigonus send to regain control of Greece?
Demetrius
Who saved Lysimachus in Phrygia?
Seleucus
When did Cassander die?
298 BCE
What was the capital of the Ptolemaic Egypt?
Alexandria
When was the Lamian war?
323-322
What years did Cleomenes III rule?
235–222 BCE
When was the Aetolian League formed?
370 BCE
What did Rhodians build to commemorate their victory over Demetrius Poliorcetes?
Colossus of Rhodes
What war did Antigonus II fight Athenians?
Chremonidean War
When did Doson die?
221 BC
When did Philip form and alliance with Hannibal of Carthage?
215 BC
What years did Queen Teutra reign?
231 BC to 227 BCE
What region was the center of the Odrysian Kingdom?
Thrace
What was Southern Italy refered to as?
Magna Graecia
What was the first Greek colony in the Mediterranean?
Massalia
Who ran the Hellenistic states of Asia and Egypt?
Greco-Macedonian administrators and governors
Who was appointed satrap of Egypt after Alexander's death?
Ptolemy
Whose tradition did Ptolemy take on as leader of Egypt?
Egyptian Pharaohs
The Syrian was were fought between Ptolemy II and whom?
the Seleucids
Till what year did Ptolemy's family rule Egypt?
30 BC
After Alexander's empire was split, what region did Seleucus I Nicator receive?
Babylonia
The Seleucid Empire was mostly dominated by whom?
Greco-Macedonian political elite
Which officer took control of Pergamum in 282 BC?
Philetaerus
Where did the Celts who settled in Galatia pass through?
Thrace
Who were a Thracian people living in northwest Anatolia?
The Bithynians
Who married Stratonice?
Ariarathes III
What kingdom was Hellenistic and on the southern coast of the Black Sea?
Pontus
Who ruled when the Kingdom of Pontus' was at it's biggest?
Mithridates VI
Orontid Armenia was given to Alexander the Great after he took control of what area?
Persia
When did the Seleucid defeat the Battle of Magnesia?
190 BC
When did Andragoras proclaim his independence?
247 BC
The Seleucids invaded Mesopotamia under whose guidance?
Antiochus VII Sidetes
What Arab State lied between the Sinai Peninsula and the Arabian Peninsula?
Nabatean Kingdom
What are was in between the Seleucid Empire and Ptolemaic Egypt during Hellenistic times?
Judea
What was the Jewish elite class called?
the Tobiads
What independent kingdom was formed out of the Maccabean Revolt of Judas Maccabeus?
Hasmonaean Dynasty
Bactria was led by what king from 255-246 BCE?
Diodotus
Who stated that the Greco-Bactrians had connections through the silk road?
Strabo
Who was the first Indo-Greek king who did not rule from Bactria?
Apollodotus I
When did Menander die?
130 BC
What does "sarvajnaa yavanaa" mean?
the all-knowing Yavanas
What period was Hellenistic culture at it's height?
Hellenistic
Before Hellenestic influence, Greek colonies were on the shores of the Taman and what other peninsula?
Crimean
What did the Greeks call Bahrain?
Tylos
Carthage was on the coast of what country?
Tunisia
Rome dominated what peninsula?
Italian
Illyrian pirates caused two wars in the Balkans with what Empire?
Roman
In what region did the Romans aim to re-bolster the influence after the Second Punic war?
the Balkans
Antiochus III allied with what king in 203 BC?
Philip V
What was the name of Philip V's son who wanted to bring back Greek independence?
Perseus
Who was the final king of the Attalid dynasty?
Attalus III
Who tried to invade Egypt in the famous line-in-the-sand incident?
Antiochus IV Epiphanes
Who is most responsible for the preservation of Hellenistic culture?
Hellenistic Greeks
Which city held the most prestigious seat of higher education?
Athens
Philip II and Alexander's court army spoke a version of what language?
Attic Greek
The practice of identifying local gods with Greek deities is called what?
Interpretatio graeca
Who led Hellenization practices by founding new Greek cities and colonies?
Alexander
Native populations in the Hellenistic world were discriminated by what peoples?
Greek
Menander converted to what religion?
Buddhism
A colonist far from the Mediterranean and low in social rank would be more likely to do what?
adopt local ways
What Egyptian god was worshipped in Athens?
Isis
What practice did the Ptolemies adopt in which they dubbed themselves god-kings?
Pharaonic
The Hellinistic age marked the rise in what type of religion?
traditional
How would people ward off misfortune in Hellenistic times?
charms
Menander is one of the few remaining pieces of what time of liteary work?
New Comedy
Who did Hellenistic poets wish to court?
kings
What city remained the center of philosophical thought?
Athens
Who promoted freedom from pain as the ultimate goal?
Epicurus
The Royal patrons of Alexander's successors supported what type of science?
Hellenistic
When did Archimedes die?
212 BC
When was Hipparchus born?
190
What is the name of the 37 gear computer which noted the motions of the Sun and Moon?
Antikythera mechanism
Who theorized that blood traveled through the veins?
Praxagoras of Kos
Philip II used a dense military formation called what?
Macedonian Phalanx
What was the largest ship constructed in Antiquity?
Ptolemaic Tessarakonteres
Emotion is called what in Hellenistic art?
pathos
Which artist chose mundane and low class subjects?
Peiraikos
Which Greek painter experimented in chiaroscuro?
Zeuxis
Who said "then art dissapeared"?
Pliny the Elder
What century of scholars considered the Hellenistic period a decline in culture from classic Greece?
19th
Who focused on the issue of racial and cultural confrontation?
William Woodthorpe Tarn
Napoleon spent ten years as emperor of what people?
the French
Of what ancestry was Napoleon?
Tuscan
When did Napoleon engineer a coup?
November 1799
What country did Napoleon invade to extend the Continental System?
Iberia
What nation did Napoleon invade in 1812 to enforce his blockade?
Russia
Who was Napoleon's father?
Carlo Maria di Buonaparte
When did Napoleon begin religious schooling in Autun?
January 1779
When did Napoleon graduate?
September 1785
Where was Napoleon put under house arrest?
Nice
Who did Napoleon become engaged to in 1795?
Désirée Clary
After his move to the Committee of Public Safety, where did Napoleon unsuccessfully attempt to be transferred to?
Constantinople
After his marriage, Napoleon left Paris to lead what army?
the Army of Italy
In what year were the French defeated in Southern Germany by the Archduke Charles?
1796
What was Napoleon's favorite strategy?
envelopment
For what action during the Italian campaign did the royalists condemn Bonaparte?
looting
Before landing at Alexandria, Napoleon succeeded in evading what military entity?
the Royal Navy
In what battle did the British fleet seize or destroy most of the French vessels in Egypt?
the Battle of the Nile
How many men were in Napoleon's army when the battle began?
13,000
Napoleon's ally Roger Ducos was the speaker for what organization?
the Council of Five Hundred
What was historian Martin Lyons' term for the political system created by Napoleon?
"dictatorship by plebiscite."
In what year did Napoleon and his troops cross the Swiss Alps and enter Italy?
1800
From what direction did Napoleon elect to invade Italy?
the north
Where did the victory for Napoleon that secured his political power and increased his popularity in France occur?
Marengo
What 1802 treaty between Britain and France ended the Revolutionary Wars?
the Treaty of Amiens
During the short peace in Europe, where did Napoleon turn his focus?
the French colonies abroad
What was the name of the assassination plot against Napoleon also known as the Infernal Machine?
the Plot of the Rue Saint-Nicaise
The imperial system Napoleon created was based on what model?
the Roman
On what date did Napoleon's coronation occur?
December 2, 1804
What was the name of the invasion force Napoleon assembled before the creation of the Third Coalition?
the Armée d'Angleterre
Napoleon acknowledged that the fleet of France was no match for what rival fleet in direct combat?
the Royal Navy
By August 1805, Napoleon changed the primary target of his army's efforts from the English Channel to what area?
the Rhine
In November, after the Ulm Campaign, what city was captured by French forces?
Vienna
The Allied defeat at what location caused Emperor Francis to doubt the chances of the war effort?
Austerlitz
Napoleon's master plan was to establish a French presence in what part of the world?
the Middle East
What is the name of the political body composed of German states established by Napoleon in 1806?
the Confederation of the Rhine
How many troops did Napoleon use for the invasion of Prussia?
180,000
In what 1806 proclamation did Napoleon begin to impose the Continental System?
the Berlin Decree
What is the name of the Duke who pressured Alexander to make peace with Napoleon?
Constantine
Where did the agreements that gave Napoleon time to structure his empire take place?
Tilsit
When did Napoleon's invasion of Portugal begin?
17 October 1807
At which 1808 meeting did Napoleon attempt to keep the Russians on his side for future conflicts?
the Congress of Erfurt
Napoleon left Iberia for Central Europe to deal with whom?
the Austrians
Who was the Prussian ruler who at first  claimed he would help Austria in its battle with France, but later refused to?
Frederick William
On what date did the Austrian army first cross the Inn River?
10 April
On what date did the main Austrian army arrive at the Marchfield?
17 May
Approximately how long did Napoleon take to prepare another Danube crossing after his defeat at Aspern-Essling?
six weeks
What was the name of the campaign by the British in Holland that created a second front in the war?
the Walcheren Campaign
When was the Treaty of Schönbrunn signed?
October 1809
After the war, what did Napoleon focus on?
domestic affairs
What meeting did Napoleon and Czar Alexander participate in in 1808?
the Congress of Erfurt
What did Napoleon name the war with Russia in an effort to garner support from Poland?
the Second Polish War
To avoid direct fighting with Napoleon, the Russians retreated into which country?
Russia
Outside what city did the Battle of Borodino occur?
Moscow
When Napoleon entered Moscow, he expected an offer of peace from whom?
Alexander
The Allies suggested peace terms in which set of proposals?
the Frankfurt proposals
The Allies took back their offer to Napoleon in what month?
December
On what date did Alexander speak to the Sénat conservateur?
1 April
In which treaty was Napoleon exiled?
the Treaty of Fontainebleau
What military unit was charged with intercepting Napoleon?
The 5th Regiment
Where did Napoleon return and find that the populace and government had turned against him?
Paris
In what year did Louis Philippe I get permission to return Napoleon's remains to France?
1840
When were the diaries of Napoleon's valet published?
1955
What substance used in Napoleon's treatment is it suggested prevented his stomach from expelling arsenic compounds?
potassium tartrate
Studies published in 2007 and 2008 dismiss what possible cause of Napoleon's death?
arsenic poisoning
What type of marriage did Napoleon have with Joséphine de Beauharnais?
civil
When was Napoleon crowned Emperor?
2 December 1804
What is the name of the 1801 document that aimed for reconcilliation between revolutionaries and Catholics?
the Concordat of 1801
The Concodat restored significant power to what position?
the papacy
How tall was Napoleon, in feet and inches?
5 ft 6 in
According to critics, what was the reason Napoleon won many battles?
luck
What did Napoleon reorganize to supply the personnel and money required to fight great wars?
France
Which foreign news service viewed Napoleon as a dangerous tyrant?
the British press
After becoming First Consul, Napoleon typically wore the uniform of which rank, rather than general?
colonel
What was the name of the first central bank in France, that Napoleon established?
the Banque de France
What was the contemporary term for the set of civil laws created by Napoleon?
the Code Civil
Who learned from Napoleon's innovations?
His opponents
When was the metric system officially introduced?
September 1799
What acts by Napoleon laid the groundwork for modernized Education in France and much of Europe?
Napoleon's educational reforms
How have many historians described Napoleon's foreign policy ambitions?
grandiose
Who put a stop to the lack of law and presence of disorder in post-Revolutionary France?
Napoleon
What practice in defeated territories became institutionalized under Napoleon?
plunder
Which historian describes Napoleon's legacy in terms of years spent at war, numbers of European dead, and France's bankruptcy and loss of colonies?
Victor Davis Hanson
Napoleon's skillful employment of what technique aided his rise to power, legitimized his rule, and improved his posthumous reputation?
propaganda
Rumors of Napoleon's return from what location were often used as an inspiration for his followers?
St. Helena
When did militaristic Boulangism collapse?
the late 1880s
After the fall of Napoleon, many countries retained what system of law?
Napoleonic Code
Napoleon is viewed by some as a founder of what modern nation?
Germany
Who did Napoleon marry in 1796?
Joséphine de Beauharnais
What was the name of the illegitimate son acknowledged by Napoleon?
Charles Léon
What is the largest private foundation in the world?
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (or the Gates Foundation, abbreviated as BMGF) is the largest private foundation in the world
What was warren Buffett's estimated net worth in 2008 
Warren Buffett (then the world's richest person, estimated worth of US$62 billion as of April 16, 2008)
What did the foundation announce in November 2014
In November 2014, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation announced that they are adopting an open access (OA) policy for publications and data
What two entities was the foundation divided into 
trustees divided the organization into two entities: the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (foundation) and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust
What does the Trust invest
The foundation trust invests undistributed assets
What did the foundation announce in March 2006 
n March 2006, the foundation announced a US$5 million grant for the International Justice Mission (IJM)
What was the name of the project founded by the IJM 
The IJM used the grant money to found "Project Lantern
What was the WSH program launched in 2005
The Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WSH) program of the Gates Foundation was launched in mid-2005
What has been the focus since 2011
Their grant-making focus has been since 2011 on sanitation science and technology ("transformative technologies")
What is need in the developing world 
Improved sanitation in the developing world is a global need
When was reinvent the toilet launched 
In 2011, the foundation launched a program called "Reinvent the Toilet Challenge
What countries have received grants 
universities in the U.S., Europe, India, China and South Africa, have received grants to develop innovative on-site and off-site waste treatment solutions
What is reinvent the toilet trying to develop
The Reinvent the Toilet Challenge is a long-term research and development effort to develop a hygienic, stand-alone toilet
The foundation has donated billions to sufferers of 
The foundation has donated billions of dollars to help sufferers of AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria
What did the foundation decide not to fund
has decided not to fund abortion"
what is the US libraries initiative 
U.S. Libraries initiative with a goal of "ensuring that if you can get to a public library, you can reach the internet
what is a key aspect of the gates foundation in the US
A key aspect of the Gates Foundation's U.S. efforts involves an overhaul of the country's education policies at both the K-12 and college levels
What is 1 foundation goal 
One of the foundation's goals is to lower poverty by increasing the number of college graduates in the United States
What has been funded as part of the education initiatives
As part of its education-related initiatives, the foundation has funded journalists, think tanks, lobbying organizations and governments
Why were the gates foundation educational reforms critcized
they may marginalize researchers who do not support Gates' predetermined policy preferences
What two entities was the foundation split into in october 2016
the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust, which manages the endowment assets and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
Who founded Northwestern University?
John Evans
How many founders did Northwestern University have?
nine
What was the name of the first building opened in 1855?
Old College
What sports team did Northwestern field its first of in 1882?
intercollegiate football
What type of campus did Northwestern begin construction of during Walter Dill Scott's presidency?
integrated
Which war transformed many colleges, including Northwestern?
World War II
In 1999, who uncovered information that exonerated death row inmate Anthony Porter only 2 days before his scheduled death?
Northwestern student journalists
What has been Northwestern's official color since 1892?
Purple
How did Northwestern create 84 additional acres in the 1960's?
by means of a lakefill in Lake Michigan
What is the name of the Chicago Transit Authority's elevated train through Evanston?
the Purple Line
In 1920, how many acres were purchased for $8 million for a new central Chicago campus?
8.5
What branch did Northwestern open in Education City, Doha, Qatar?
NU-Q
In 2009, who named Northwestern as one of the top 10 universities in the country in purchasing renewable energy?
Green Power Partnership
What is the required certification for all Northwestern buildings?
LEED
Who governs Northwestern?
an appointed Board of Trustees
How many undergraduate programs are offered by Northwestern?
124
Which 4-year program comprises the majority of enrollments at Northwestern?
full-time undergraduate
What was the total undergrad tuition for the 2012/2013 school year?
$61,240
In the fall of 2014, which school did 40.6% of undergraduates enroll in?
Weinberg College of Arts and Sciences
How selective are admissions at Northwestern characterized by U.S. News & World Report?
most selective
What City College initiative did Northwestern announce signing on with in 2016?
the Chicago Star Partnership
How many libraries are on the Evanston campus?
four
When was Northwestern elected to the Association of American Universities?
1917
Where is the home of the Center for Catalysis and Surface Science?
Northwestern
How much money has the traditional Northwestern Dance Marathon raised for children's charities?
more than 13 million dollars
What do students traditionally do at the beginning of each football game kickoff?
jingle keys
What are the two most notable productions each year at Northwestern?
the Waa-Mu show, and the Dolphin show
What 30 hour event raised more than a million dollars for charity in 2011?
Dance Marathon
What percentage of undergraduates were affiliated with a fraternity or sorority in Winter 2013?
39%
What is the name of Northwestern's main student newspaper?
The Daily Northwestern
What is the name of the scholarly legal publication at Northwestern School of Law?
The Northwestern University Law Review
What journal was founded in 2008 that features articles by professors and law students?
The Northwestern Interdisciplinary Law Review
What is the name Northwestern's humor website formed in 2011?
Sherman Ave
What is the publication that is dedicated to the analysis of current events and public policy?
Politics & Policy
How many men's intercollegiate athletic teams are fielded by Northwestern?
8
Where do Northwestern's basketball, wrestling, and volleyball teams play?
Welsh-Ryan Arena
Who is the mascot of Northwestern Athletics?
Willie the Wildcat
How many appearances has Northwestern's football team made in the top 10 AP poll since 1936?
73
What were 2 former Northwestern basketball players charged and convicted for in 1998?
sports bribery
How many full-time faculty members does Northwestern employ?
3,401
Which of Northwestern's alumni is notable for becoming a U.S. Senator and presidential candidate?
George McGovern
Who founded the Amsterdam based comedy theater Boom Chicago?
Northwestern alumni
How many Pulitzer Prize laureates attended the Medill School of Journalism?
38
Which graduate of The Feinburg School of Medicine was the Roswell Park Cancer Institute named after?
Mary Harris Thompson
Where did Hokkien originate?
southern Fujian.
What at the main Hokkioen urban centers?
Quanzhou and Zhangzhou.
What percentage of Chinese Filipino are reportedly native Hokkien speakers?
98.5%
The Three Kings Period was a period of time in what country?
China
Who was the ruler of China in 677?
Emperor Gaozong
What is another name for Xiamen dialect?
Amoy
What Chinese dialect has more consonants than standard Mandarin or Cantonese?
Hokkien
How many phonemic tones do Hokkien dialects have?
5 to 7
The Amoy dialect is a hybrid of what two dialects?
Quanzhou and Zhangzhou
In Hokkien dialects, the arrangent of words is important to what?
meaning
What are literary and colloquial readings called?
tha̍k-im
Colloquial stratum can be traced to several strata in what lexicon?
Min
Where did the language of Min and Wu dialects originate?
in the state of Wu
Where did Hokkein originate?
Quanzhou
When did Taiwanese Hokkien have a fast change in development?
In the 1990s
Hokkien is usually written using what characters?
Chinese
Most Hokkein morphemes have what type of characters?
standard designated
Hokkien is sometimes written in what script?
Latin
When can Min Nan texts be dated back to?
the 16th century
What is another name for unicode?
the corresponding ISO/IEC 10646: Universal Character Set
How was the proposal taken from mainland and aboriginal groups?
This proposal encountered strong opposition
What is Montevideo classified as?
a Beta World City
Who organized the Spanish expedition?
Bruno Mauricio de Zabala
What became the main city of the region north of the Rio de la Plata?
Montevideo
When did British troops occupy the city of Montevideo?
3 February 1807
After the Revolution of 1810 there was a subsequent uprising of what provinces? 
Rio de la Plata
What year was the Spanish governor expelled?
1814
Manuel Oribe and Fructuoso Rivera fought against what empire?
Empire of Brazil
What did Montevideo suffer between 1843 and 1851?
a siege
What year was a stagecoach bus line established in Montevideo?
1853
What year did Compania de Tranvias al Paso del Molino y Cerro creat the first lines connecting Montevideo with Union?
1868
When were the first telephone lines installed?
1882
What century did many Europeans immigrate to the city of Montevideo?
early 20th century
Who was the Admiral of the German pocket ship?
Admiral Graf Spee
Montevideo is situated on the north shore of what?
the Río de la Plata
The city of Montevideo has an average elevation of what?
43 metres
The Municipality of Montevideo was first created by a legal act of what?
18 December 1908
How many political municipalities has the city of Montevideo been divided into as of 2010?
8
What had many of the city's barrios previously been?
geographically separate settlements
How many inhabitants did Montevideo have in 1860?
57,913
According to the census survey carried out between 15 June and 31 July 2004, what was Montevideo's population?
1,325,968 persons
What is the economic and political centre of the country?
Montevideo
What kind of company does ANCAP run?
Energy
What has traditionally been the strongest service export sectors in Uruguay?
Banking
What accounts for much of Uruguay's economy?
Tourism
How many guest rooms does the Sheraton have?
207
What is the heartland of retailing in Uruguay?
Montevideo
What style of building is the Montevideo Metropolitan Cathedral? 
Neoclassical
What district has many homes built by Bello and reboratti?
Pocitos
When did World Trade Center Montevideo officially open?
1998
What was intended to be a platform for the development of business activities?
The Towers Square
What is Uruguay's oldest theater? 
The Solís Theatre
Who designed the Palacio Salvo?
Mario Palanti
What is also a major note in Ciudad Vieja?
Plaza de la Constitución
What major public central park is located south of Avenida Italia? 
Parque Batlle
Parque Batlle is named in honor of who?
José Batlle y Ordóñez
Parque Rodo belongs to who?
Punta Carretas
What is on the east side of the park?
the National Museum of Visual Arts
Who planned the first set of subsidiary forts?
Portuguese
What overlooks the bay of Montevideo?
Fortaleza del Cerro
What avenue goes along the entire coastline of Montevideo?
The Rambla
What is the largest cemetery?
Cementerio del Norte
Where is the British Cemetery Montevideo located?
Buceo neighborhood
What unique form of dance originated in the neighbourhods of Montevideo?
Uruguayan tango
Who gave the initial donation of the private library?
Father José Manuel Pérez Castellano
Tango, milonga and vals criollo are the most popular forms of music in what region?
Rio de Plata region
What suffered when the military junta took over power in Uruguay?
art
What was the seat of government during the colonial times of the Viceroyalty of the Rio de la Plata?
The Montevideo Cabildo
Where is the Palacio Taranco located?
the heart of Ciudad Vieja
The National History Museum of Montevideo is located where?
the historical residence of General Fructuoso Rivera
The Museo Torres Garcia is located where?
the Old Town
Where is the National Museum of Visual Arts located?
Parque Rodó
Where is the Museo de Guacho y de la Moneda located?
the Centro
What is the center of traditional Uruguayan food and beverage in Montevideo?
the Mercado del Puerto
What is the major annual festival in Montevideo?
the annual Montevideo Carnaval
Church and state have been officially separated in Uruguay since what year?
1916
What does Nuestra Senora del Sagrado Corazon mean?
Our Lady of the Sacred Heart
What is the country's largest university? 
The University of the Republic
When did the process of funding the country's public university begin?
11 June 1833
What is the largest private university in Uruguay?
ORT Uruguay
What is the main methodist educational institution in Uruguay?
The Montevideo Crandon Institute
Where is the Christian Brothers of Ireland Stella Maris College located?
Carrasco
Where is the British Schools of Montevideo located?
Carrasco
Where is St. Brendan's school located?
Cordon
What is the national football stadium in Parque Batlle?
Estadio Centenario
Where is the Uruguayan Basketball League headquartered?
Montevideo
What does DNT stand for?
Dirección Nacional de Transporte
What does the AFE stand for?
The State Railways Administration of Uruguay
What gives natural protection to ships in Montevideo?
The port on Montevideo Bay
What is one of the oldest hospitals in Uruguay?
Hospital Maciel
What is the only psychiatric hospital in Montevideo?
Hospital Vilardebó
What is the significance of poultry in the lives of humans?
kept by humans for the eggs they produce, their meat, their feathers, or sometimes as pets.
How long have humans used domsticated poultry ?
domestication of poultry took place several thousand years ago
What two addtional types of birds are listed in teh Encyclopedia Britanica as poultry?
guinea fowl and squabs (young pigeons)
What are male chickens called ?
cocks
When did the poultry business boom in the United States ?
By the mid-20th century, the poultry meat-producing industry was of greater importance than the egg-laying industry
What breed of chicken is named after a town in Java ?
A bantam
How long ago was the sport of fighting chickens been around?
Cockfighting is said to be the world's oldest spectator sport and may have originated in Persia 6,000 years ago.
How can you identify a duck from other poultry?
medium-sized aquatic birds with broad bills, eyes on the side of the head, fairly long necks, short legs set far back on the body, and webbed feet.
How long have ducks possibly been in domesticated domicile with humans?
Clay models of ducks found in China dating back to 4000 BC may indicate the domestication of ducks took place there during the Yangshao culture
What breed of duck is considered the first?
mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) is the ancestor of all breeds of domestic duck (with the exception of the Muscovy duck
When was the greylag goose first domesticated by humans?
The greylag goose (Anser anser) was domesticated by the Egyptians at least 3000 years ago
do domestic and wild geese have the same apperearance ?
Domestic geese are much larger than their wild counterparts and tend to have thick necks, an upright posture, and large bodies with broad rear ends
How many species is the recent day turkey suspected to have embarked from?
descended from one of six subspecies of wild turkey
What type of accomidations are domesticated turkey normally grown in?
Commercial turkeys are usually reared indoors under controlled conditions
Have quails ever been used for entertainment purposes ?
They were originally kept as songbirds, and they are thought to have been regularly used in song contests.
Why did the Japanses begin to breed quails in teh 20th century?
Japanese breeders began to selectively breed for increased egg production.
What continent is the evolution of guinea fowl credited to?
Africa
What is the gourmet title given to pigeons ?
A squab
What is the most popular type of poulty that is farmed?
Worldwide, more chickens are kept than any other type of poultry
What is the benefit to chickens of being in a free-range farming location?
the birds have access to natural conditions and can exhibit their normal behaviours
What is the average size of chickens used extensively for it's meat production raised in an intensive environment? 
carcass size (2 kg (4.4 lb))
What are some of the major concerns with intensive breeding programs?
cannibalism, feather pecking and vent pecking can be common
Is there a pplace where lovers of the chicken are able to see some of its best attributes ?
In many countries, national and regional poultry shows are held where enthusiasts exhibit their birds
Jo w common is the consumtion of poultry in the world?
Poultry is the second most widely eaten type of meat in the world, accounting for about 30% of total meat production worldwide
How many ducks did China produce for consumption in 2011?
China producing two thirds of the total, some 1.7 billion birds
What is the most substantial part of a birds antomy as it apples to consupmtion og the meat?
The meatiest parts of a bird are the flight muscles on its chest, called "breast" meat, and the walking muscles on the legs, called the "thigh" and "drumstick"
Are there reasons for the dark meat  that poultry has?
The dark colour comes from the protein myoglobin, which plays a key role in oxygen uptake and storage within cells
When is it possible for baccteria is enter into poultry before you get it home?
Translational Genomics Research
Is the Avian flu a risk only to animals?
people in contact with live poultry are at the greatest risk of becoming infected with the virus
What are poultry eggs used for aside from consumption?
Many vaccines to infectious diseases can be grown in fertilised chicken eggs.
What is the nutitional value to humans of poultry and poultry products?
protein of high quality
In what year did Arsenal join The Football League?
1893
What was the original name of the Arsenal team?
Dial Square
What group from the munitions plant in Woolwich formed the Arsenal club?
workers
What manager was appointed to lead Arsenal in 1925?
Herbert Chapman
When was Bertie Mee become manager of Arsenal?
1966
On what date was Bertie Mee replaced by Arsenal?
9 July 1976
What former Arsenal player became manager in 1986?
George Graham
What manager in the late 1990s brought success to Arsenal?
Arsène Wenger
Including Arsenal, how many  teams  had won the Premier League up to 2013?
five
What famous team defeated Arsenal for the League Cup in 2007?
Chelsea
In what year did Arsenal first create a crest for the team?
1888
What Latin motto was added to the crest in 1949?
Victoria Concordia Crescit
What style of logo did Chapman introduce in the 1930s?
Art Deco
What celebration did Arsenal have in the 2011-12 season?
125th year anniversary
What has the color of the Arsenal  home shirts been?
bright red
What manager updated the players uniforms in 1933?
Herbert Chapman
What early team copied the Arsenal's red current color in 1909?
Sparta Prague
During what season were Arsenal's away colors white shirts and white or black shorts?
1969–70 season
What manufacturer became Arsenal's uniform provider in 1994?
Nike
When did Arsenal FC leave Highbury stadium?
May 2006
What was the most people that Highbury stadium could host?
60,000
When did Arsenal offer a plan to build a new stadium at Ashburton Grove?
2000
What is the common nickname of Arsenal supporters?
Gooners
What type of clubs does Arsenal have?
domestic supporters' clubs
What medium has added to the fan base of Arsenal?
satellite television
What football club is Arsenal's greatest rival?
Tottenham Hotspur
What individual is the biggest shareholder on the Arsenal board?
Stan Kroenke
By what means does Arsenal operate as a company?
non-quoted public limited
Where does Deloitte Football Money League rank Arsenal in the world football clubs?
seventh
Why was Arsenal's match on 22 Jan. 1927 at Highbury a first?
broadcast live on radio
In what film was Arsenal FC shown?
The Arsenal Stadium Mystery
How have Arsenal players portrayed in media?
defensive and "boring"
How many League Championships has Arsenal won?
13
At what stadium do Arsenal Ladies usually play?
Boreham Wood.
In what place with the word "name" in it do most people speak Dutch?
Suriname
Which two languages does Dutch most closely resemble?
German and English
What are variations on Dutch used in Belgium sometimes called?
Flemish
What Old Germanic term was used to describe the non-Romance languages that developed in Europe?
theudisk
In what century was a differentiation made to clear up confusion about West Germanic languages?
16th
Dutch people didn't have an officially established word for the "Dutch" language until what century?
19th
What was the new word for Dutch that still caused some confusion with the language spoken in Germany?
Nederduits
How many different versions of a Germanic language were spoken in the Low Countries?
Three
Which language tree groups Dutch with English?
Indo-European
Into how many groups are Germanic languages usually split?
three
What's another term for "Frankish"?
Franconian
What's another name for Old Frisian?
Anglo-Frisian
Are written records of Old Dutch rare or common?
rare
What language did Middle Dutch come from?
Old Dutch
What court in Dijon prior to 1477 had a hand in standardizing Dutch?
Burgundian Ducal Court
What was the old name for the geographical region that's now Belgium and Luxembourg?
Southern Netherlands
What's the "cheesy" name for East Low Franconian?
Limburgish
What dialect of Dutch is spoken in Drenthe?
Dutch Low Saxon
What organization researched the use of regional Dutch dialects and found their usage declining?
Geert Driessen
What's the Dutch word for "money"?
geld
What's the West Flemish word for "no"?
nee
What Dutch dialect is so distinct that it's often considered a language variant?
West Flemish
What dialect is considered a sister language to Dutch?
West Frisian
What percentage of people in Belgium speak Dutch?
59%
What town in Germany has always had mostly Dutch speakers?
Kleve
In what country other than France did Dutch lose most of it usage in the 19th century?
Prussia
About how many students in Belgium are studying Dutch?
300,000
For how long have there been Dutch speakers in Indonesia?
almost 350 years
Towards the end of what century did it become important for more people in Dutch colonies to speak Dutch?
19th
What became the official language of Indonesia after they declared their independence?
Malay
About what percentage of residents of Suriname speak Dutch?
60
What's the year that Jersey Dutch was last spoken, according to records?
1921
In what decade did European Dutch yield to the local dialect in South Africa?
1920s
Who has a more difficult time understanding the other's language: Dutch speakers or Afrikaans speakers?
Afrikaans speakers
Approximately what percentage of South Africans are native Afrikaans speakers?
13.5%
What sound does Dutch still use from Proto-Germanic that was phased out in other Germanic languages?
velar fricatives
Is the voicing of pre-vocalic initial voiceless alveolar fricatives more common in Dutch or German?
German
What quality of Dutch vowels isn't usually recognized as distinctive?
length
What letter represents the sound native English speakers often use for Dutch names with "ij" or "ei" in them?
y
What linguistic event in English could we parallel with the Dutch lowering of diphthongs?
English Great Vowel Shift
What word did Stroop use to describe the static stage of diphthong pronunciation?
"intermediate"
How many genders does standard Dutch use for both natural and grammatical gender?
three
What's the Dutch word for "my"?
mijn
What case no longer used in Dutch is still present in German phrases like "Der Herr des Hauses"?
genitive
In what type of Dutch clause does the subject usually follow the conjugated verb?
interrogative main clause
What word do Dutch speakers use for what we call a "shotgun marriage"?
moetje
Which diminutive of "bloem" means a "bouquet"?
bloemetje
What language besides Dutch uses the dative case instead of the accusative for pronouns?
English
How would a Dutch speaker say "doghouse"?
hondenhok
What percentage of loanwords are present in Dutch vocabulary?
20%
How many extra characters does Dutch have in addition to the standard alphabet?
one
What was Buckingham Palace orginally known as?
Buckingham House
What colors were added in the partial redecoration overseen by King Edward VII?
Belle Époque cream and gold
Which river runs underneath the palace?
river Tyburn
Which property tycoon inherited the property in the late 17th century?
Sir Hugh Audley
Who built the first house on the site?
Sir William Blake
In what year did William Winde design the house which forms the core of the palace?
1703
What did King George IV originally want the structure to be?
a small, comfortable home
Who was the first monarch to reside at Buckingham Palace?
Queen Victoria
Who designed the new wing for the palace in 1847?
Edward Blore
The palace frequently hosted which type of events prior to the death of Prince Albert?
musical entertainments
When year did Prince Albert die?
1861
How many principle bedrooms does the palace have?
52
The 1855 Room is name for which European emperor?
Emperor Napoleon III of France
Where did many of the fittings for the new east wing come from?
Brighton Pavilion
Which room has the famous balcony used by the royals?
Centre Room
Where do foreign heads of stay usually stay in Buckingham Palace?
the Belgian Suite
Aside from being the home of the monarchy and a tourist attraction, what else is Buckingham Palace known for?
art gallery
Buckingham Palace is actually owned by whom?
Crown Estate
What is the official dress code today at Buckingham Palace?
there is no official dress code
Under whose reign did court presentations of young aristocratic ladies take place?
Edward VII
Where do Investitures take place?
in the palace's Ballroom
Where do State Banquets take place?
the Ballroom
Who designed the Royal Mews?
Nash
In what year did Edward VII ascend to the throne?
1901
Under whose reign did the last major building works take place?
King George V
Who lived at Buckingham Palace during WWI?
King George V and Queen Mary
How many times was the palace bombed in WWII?
nine times
What is the date of the Battle of Britain Day?
15 September 1940
What type of energy makes an incandescent light bulb glow?
electric current
Are incandescent bulbs more or less efficient than most electric lighting?
less efficient
What law did Australia make about incandescent light bulbs?
prohibited them already
Who patented an incandescent light bulb in Russia in 1874?
Alexander Lodygin
Where did Joseph Swan demonstrate his lamp in January 1879?
at a meeting of the Newcastle Chemical Society
When did Edison begin research into incandescent lighting?
1878
Who founded Electro-Dynamic Light Company?
Albon Man
Who developed a heat-treating method that allowed carbon filaments to be molded into shapes?
Lewis Latimer
Which inventors patented the tungsten filament lamp?
Hungarian Sándor Just and Croatian Franjo Hanaman
What does the acronym LER refer to?
radiant luminous efficacy
At what temperature does a thermal radiator most efficiently produce light?
6,300 °C
What is the purpose of white-balancing?
to avoid too "warm" or "cool" colors
Do fluorescent lights have a higher or lower luminous efficiency than incandescents?
higher
What appliance requires more energy due to the use of incandescent lighting?
a building's air conditioning system
Do incandescent light bulbs use more or less energy as compared to CFLs and LED lamps?
more
Is the environmental performance of CFLs better or worse than that of incandescents?
better
Which company introduced hybrid incandescent bulbs?
Philips
What is the name of the air-tight glass enclosure in an incandescent bulb?
the envelope
What is the powdery substance in coated glass light bulbs?
kaolin
What is the name for a base with one or more contacts at the tip and one at the shell?
screw base
What is a potential problem with the use of gas in a light bulb?
introduces heat losses (and therefore efficiency loss)
What type of machine manufactures glass light bulbs.
ribbon machine
What material were the first light bulb filaments made from?
carbon
What company invented the tantalum light filament?
Siemens
What was the problem with manufacturing the tungsten filament?
Tungsten metal was initially not available in a form that allowed it to be drawn into fine wires.
How long is a typical uncoiled tungsten filament for a 60-watt bulb?
22.8 inches
What is the negative effect of "hot spots" forming on the filament?
a variation of diameter of only 1% will cause a 25% reduction in service life
Why does inert gas reduce efficiency?
conducts heat from the filament, thereby cooling the filament
What determines how fast a tungsten filament evaporates?
hotter, more-efficient filaments evaporate faster
What darkens a conventional bulb over its lifetime?
the evaporated tungsten eventually condenses on the inner surface of the glass envelope
How does water vapor inside a light bulb affect lamp darkening?
significantly increase darkening
Does the halogen bulp increase, reduce, or have no effect on filament evaporation?
reduces
What did an alternate version of the incandescent lamp substitute for a wire filament?
an arc struck on a spherical bead electrode
What does a power factor of 1 mean?
the actual power consumed (in watts) and the apparent power (in volt-amperes) are equal
What determines the resistance of a filament?
temperature
What do the letters identify in a bulb shape designation?
the shape of the bulb
Which company introduced standard base sizes for incandescent lamps?
General Electric
What level of voltage reduction is required to double the life of an incandescent bulb?
a 5% reduction in operating voltage
When did the "Centennial Light" begin burning?
1901
At what temperature does a typical 50-hour-life projection bulb operate?
50 °C (122 °F)
How many lumens per watt does a typical 100-watt, 120-volt lamp produce?
17.1 lumens per watt
What made power distribution economically viable in Edison's lamp?
high resistance
What can clothing provide during hazardous activities?
safety
What isn't it easy to determine about clothing?
when clothing was first developed
What obvious improvement does clothing bestow upon the wearer?
comfort
What variety has there been in the materials of clothing throughout history?
very wide
What does clothing protect from things which may injure it?
the uncovered human body
What animal has shown extreme inventiveness in the clothing it has devised?
Humans
What century do dissertation on clothing first appear from?
19th
What is an example of clothing that was once seen as exclusively for males?
Trousers
Who was allowed to wear gamrents dyed with Tyrian purple in ancient Rome?
senators
How was the earliest clothing kept on the body?
tied around
What group of people debate when humans stated wearing clothes?
Scientists
Various cultures have come up with ways of making clothes from what?
cloth
What had somewhat became an international style by the early 21st century?
western clothing styles
Safety reasons may be why someone wears this type of clothing.
special
Changes keep happening because new cultural stuff meets these type of innovations.
technological
What type of conditions do many garment works endure?
challenging
The abolishing of the MFA made what possible?
Outsourcing production to low wage countries
What have humans used for clothing since prehistoric times?
animal fur
What's the point of ironing clothing?
to remove wrinkles
What releases formaldehyde?
A resin
What used to be considered an art, back in the day?
mending
What American professional baseball team is located on the North side of Chicago, IL?  
The Chicago Cubs
When did the Chicago Cubs play their first game?
1876
What year did the cubs record a Major League record of 116 wins?
1906
Who did the Cubs began play as?
the Chicago White Stockings
Who assumed ownership of the Cubs after Hulbert died?
Spalding
Who did Spalding sell the Cubs to in 1902?
Jim Hart
Who obtained a large block of the Cub's shares in 1914?
Albert Lasker
What year did Hack Wilson have one of the most impressive seasons in MLB history?
1930
Why were the first three games of the 1945 World Series played in Detroit?
wartime travel restrictions
Who had been a key player in the 1945 season?
Phil Cavarretta
Who managed the Cubs in 1969?
Leo Durocher
During what decade did the Cubs become known as "The Loveable Losers"?
the 70s
What year did the Cubs hire GM Dallas Green?
1981
Who shored up the 1984 roster with a series of transactions?
Green
When did Green make a deal to shore up the starting rotation?
June 15
What contest shift the Cubs' Fortunes? 
NBC Saturday Game of the Week
In what year did the league have two divisions? 
1984
Why did the cubs need to host their home games at an alternative site?
Wrigley Field did not yet have lights
Who easily won the first two games in the NLCS?
, the Cubs
What year was the first full season with night baseball at Wrigley Field?
1989
What legendary broadcaster died in the '98 season?
Harry Caray
Who put together a good season for the Cubs in 2001?
Don Baylor
When did the Cubs promote assistant general manager and player personnel director Jim Hendry?
July 5, 2002
In what game did Florida shut the Cubs out?
Game 5
What year did most media outlets pick the Cubs to win the World Series?
2004
Who did the Cubs trade after leaving the final game early and lieing about it?
Sammy Sosa
How many wins did the Cubs finish the NL Central with in 2006?
66
What  Chunichi Dragons  start was signed to the Cubs in 2008?
Kosuke Fukudome
When did the Ricketts family acquire a majority interest in the Cubs?
2009
Who debuted as the starting shortstop in early May 2010?
Starlin Castro
How many games under .500 did the Cubs finish the 2011 season with?
20
Who did the Cubs trade to the Texas Rangers for Mike Olt, C.J. Edwards, Neil Ramirez, and Justin Grimm?
Matt Garza
When did the Cubs announce that Joe Maddon had signed a five-year contract to be the 54th manager?
November 2, 2014
When were the Cubs and New York Giants involved in a tight pennant race?
September 23, 1908
When was game three of the World Series between the Cubs and the New York Yankees?
October 1, 1932
When did Hack Wilson set a record of 56 home-runs and 190 runs-batted-in?
1930
When did protesters run into the outfield and try to set fire to the U.S. flag?
April 25, 1976
When did Sammy Sosa explode into pursuit of Roger Maris' home run record? 
1998
When did the Cubs record their 10,000 regular-season win?
April 23, 2008
How many batters did Kerry Wood strike out against Houston?
20
What is the longest championship drought in all four of the major North American professional sports leagues?
107 seasons
Who was the first and only player to hit a pitched ball onto the roof of a five-story building across Waveland Ave?
Glenallen Hill
When did the Cubs sign a developmental agreement with the Kane County Cougars?
2012
Who began spring training in Hot Springs, Arkansas in 1886?
Chicago White Stockings
Where is the Cubs' current spring  training facility located?
Sloan Park
Where is Rendezvous Park?
Mesa
Who had a majority interest in Cataline island  in 1919?
William Wrigley Jr
Where was the former location in Mesa?
the second HoHoKam Park
Who manned the Cubs radio and TV booth for parts of five decades?
Jack Brickhouse
How long was Harry Caray's tenure  with the Cubs?
17-year
Who did Harry hand-pick himself?
Steve Stone
What company purchased the  Cubs in 1981?
Tribune Company
What was "Baseball's Sad Lexicon" also known as?
"Tinker to Evers to Chance"
What is the official Cubs team mascot?
a young bear cub
What did "The Bear-man" wear as an outfit?
'polar bear' looking outfit
What is another unofficial well-known mascot?
Ronnie "Woo Woo" Wickers
Where is Wrigley Field located?
Chicago's Lake View neighborhood
When did Tom Ricketts and Crane Kenney unveil plans for a five-year funded renovation of Wrigley Field?
2013
What nickname has been given to the fans who sit in the bleacher section at Wrigley Field?
Bleacher Bums
What year did a group of Chicago Cubs fans form the Emil Verban Society?
1975
What year was the single "Hey Hey! Holy Mackerel! (The Cubs Song)" produced? 
1969
When was Take Me Out to a Cubs game released? 
2008
What film depicts the Chicago Cubs defeating a baseball team from Miami in the 2015 World Series?
Back to the Future Part II
How many federal states does Germany have?
sixteen
What year was the Federal Republic of Germany created?
1949
How did Baden-Württemberg form?
following a referendum
What is an entrenched constitutional principle in Germany?
Federalism
What does the term Länder date back to?
the Weimar Constitution of 1919
What keeps being debated in Germany?
delimitation of the federal territory
The Holy Roman Empire comprised of how many petty states? 
more than 300
Who redrew Germany's internal borders after World War II?
Allied military governments
How many states did West Germany have at its founding?
eleven
What was the German constitution later amended to say about the citizens of the 16 states?
had successfully achieved the unity of Germany
What has been discussed since the Federal Republic was founded in 1949?
new delimitation of the federal territory
When did the debate on delimitation begin in Germany?
1919
When did the Nazi Party seize power?
January 1933
In the revision of Article 29, what was a binding provision for a new delimitation of the federal territory?
the Federal Territory must be revised
In what negotiation did France offer to establish the independent Saarland?
Paris Agreements
Paragraph 6 of Article 29 states that a referendum, in the event of a successful petition should be held within how many years?
three
What did Chancellor Willy Brandt propose in his  28 October 1969 address?
Article 29 of the Basic Law as a binding order
Which article stipulates that the structure of each Federal State's government must "conform to the principles of republican, democratic, and social government, based on the rule of law"?
Article 28
What are the governments in Berlin, Bremen and Hamburg called?
Senate
What are the districts of Germany considered?
administrative districts
Local associations of a special kind are an amalgamation of one or more Landkreise with what?
one or more Kreisfreie Städte
Every rural district is subdivided into what?
municipalities
Municipalities have how many major policy responsibilities?
local governments can justify
In what year did the Korean War begin?
1950
What nation ruled Korea in 1910?
Japan
At the beginning of the conflict, where were South Korean forces pushed back to?
Pusan Perimeter
In, China what is the war officially called?
War to Resist U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea
Along with Taiwan, what empire was Korea considered to be apart of?
Empire of Japan
How many Japanese forces were in Korea in 1945?
300,000
What job were Colonels Dean Rusk and Charles H. Bonesteel III given?
dividing the Korean Peninsula
Who accepted Japan's surrender?
Gen. John R. Hodge
What is the civil disobedience caused by the railroad worker's strike called?
the Autumn uprising
What did the Joint Commission's lack of progress cause the US government to do?
hold an election
When was South Korea's constitution created?
1948
Who supported the Chinese Communists during the civil war in Manchuria?
North Korean government
What country helped North Korea invade South Korea?
China
What country did China see as a threat to the People's Republic of China?
Western nations
When did the Soviets first detonate a nuclear bomb?
1949
Who had to agree to send reinforcements for Stalin to give permission for the invasion of Korea?
Mao
Who did the Soviets send to North Korea?
Soviet generals
Who called for Korean elections in 1950?
Kim Il-sung
Who primarily initiated the clashes along the 38th parallel?
the South
Who provoked a conflict by crossing the 38th parallel?
Korean People's Army
Who, along with members of the South Korean government, fled South Korea?
Rhee
What country was believed to provide a counterbalance to China's and the Soviet Union's involvement in Korea?
Japan
What was the Truman administration concerned about that was preventing them from getting involved in the Korean conflict?
Soviet reaction
Who condemned the actions of North Korea?
United Nations Security Council
What country challenged the legitimacy of the Korean War?
Soviet Union
How many infantry divisions did N. Korea have engaged in the war?
10
What was the problem with the ROK Army?
Army defenders were relatively unprepared and ill-equipped
Which Secretary of State did President Truman hold discussions about how the US would respond to the invasion of South Korea?
Dean Acheson
Why was the US naval blockade not feasible?
U.S. Navy no longer had the warships
What general provided material to the Republic of Korea and evacuated US nationals?
General MacArthur
What battle is considered the US's first significant fight in the Korean War?
Battle of Osan
How did the KPA hurt the Republic of Korea's intellectual core?
by killing civil servants and intellectuals
Why did Zhou Enlai want a commitment the Soviet Union to commit to supporting the Chinese troops?
To counter a possible U.S. deployment
Which army was trying to capture Teague and the Naktong Bulge?
KPA
Where in the United States was the tank battalion located?
San Francisco
Why did General MacArthur suggest an amphibious landing at Inchon?
To relieve the Pusan Perimeter
Who initially opposed General MacArthur's landing plan?
the Pentagon
Whose nickname was 'Task Force Lynch'?
Lieutenant Colonel James H. Lynch
Who was sent to Korea to act as an advisor to Kim Il-Sung?
General H. M. Zakharov
What emergency session was called by Stalin?
Politburo
What memorandum stated the circumstances for engaging in conflict above the 38th parallel?
National Security Council Memorandum 81/1
Who vowed to intervene if the US was to engage in conflict North of the 38th parallel?
China
Who issued a statement calling for North Korea's unconditional surrender?
MacArthur
What did President Truman do to prevent hostilities between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan?
dispatched the United States Seventh Fleet to the Taiwan Strait
What was discussed at the emergency talks held by Chinese leaders?
whether to send Chinese troops into Korea
Where did Zhou travel with a Chinese delegation to convince Stalin to support China?
the Black Sea
What made seeing the PVA units difficult during the day?
their march and bivouac discipline
Who did not capture the city of Namchonjam?
KPA
Where did President Truman and General MacArthur meet on October 15, 1950?
Wake Island
Who initiated the First Phase offensive?
PVA 13th Army Group
Whose retreat during the Korean war was the longest in the history of the US Army?
U.S. Eighth Army's
Who did the PVA 13th Army Group force out of northwest Korea?
the U.S. Eighth Army
What was the name of the ship responsible for undertaking the largest rescue operation by a single ship?
SS Meredith Victory
What is the Third Phase Offensive also known as?
Chinese New Year's Offensive
Why was the PVA unable to advance beyond Seoul?
The PVA had outrun its logistics capability
What to be achieved by the Sancheong-Hamyang and Geochang massacres in South Korea?
destroy the guerrillas and their sympathizer citizens in Southern Korea
What Operation was initiated after the successful Operation Roundup?
Operation Killer
Why did Stalin send two air forces divisions and other assistance to the Chinese?
the Chinese war effort
Who was relieved from his duties as Commander in Korea?
General MacArthur
Who was appointed Supreme Commander in Korea after the removal of General MacArthur?
General Ridgway
What was the Fifth Phase of the Chinese counter initiative called?
Chinese Spring Offensive
Where did armistice negotiations occur?
Kaesong
When was the Battle of White Horse?
6–15 October 1952
Did the UN troops or Chinese troops experience more war casualties?
Chinese troops
Who believed that neither side would see a victory at the end of the Korean War?
Peng Dehuai
How long did the armistice talks last?
two years
Who did the US elect as president during the Korean War?
Dwight D. Eisenhower
Where is the capital city of Kaesong now located?
North Korea
What was the point of Operation Glory?
to allow combatant countries to exchange their dead
Why is North Korea insisting that the 1953 armistice was violated?
new wave of UN sanctions
What form of attack was an effective measure of slowing Korean armor?
ground attack aircraft
Why were naval skirmishes not really seen in the Korean War?
neither Korea had a significant navy
What type of ships did the US spend most of its time sinking?
supply and ammunition ships
Who denied having anything more than an advisory role in the Korean War?
the Soviet Union
What plane did the US send to Korea to counter the power of the MiG-15?
F-86 Sabre
When was Royal Shell Group Created?
February 1907
Aside from biofuels what other renewable energy activities is Shell involved with?
wind
What percent of ownership did the merger award the Dutch branch?
60
In what year was it announced that the Shell Group would move to a single capital structure?
2004
In what year did Shell and Cosan form a 50:50 joint venture?
2010
Which assets did the corporation begin to sell in 2013?
US shale gas
What is a cause of severe environmental issues in the Niger Delta?
The presence of companies like Shell
The name Shell is connected to what company?
The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company
What is Shell's primary business?
the management of a vertically integrated oil company
Shell was traditionally considered what type of business worldwide?
heavily decentralised
Downstream operations currently includes what type of business?
chemicals
What did Shell announce in April 2010?
its intention to divest from downstream business of all African countries except South Africa and Egypt to Vitol and "Helios"
What company was the owner of the 7-Eleven brand in Scandinavia?
Reitan Group
Shell Oil Company's United States business throughout its early history is described as what?
substantially independent
The final investment decision for what was finalized by Royal Dutch Shell in May 2011?
the world's first floating liquefied natural gas (FLNG) facility
What percent of its stake in Woodside Petroleum did Shell sell in June 2014?
9.5%
Shell purchased what in 2005?
an offshore lease
What conditions caused the delay of drilling in mid-2012?
difficult weather
Why was the Kulluk oil rig being towed to Washington?
to be serviced in preparation for the 2013 drilling season
Following what event was it uncertain if Shell would recommence drilling?
the "Kulluk" incident
For what particular reason did protesters criticize the company's environmental record in the 1990s?
the possible pollution caused by the proposed disposal of the Brent Spar platform into the North Sea
In 1996, multiple groups filed lawsuits to hold Shell accountable for what?
alleged human rights violations in Nigeria
A 2010 leaked communication revealed that Shell claimed to have inserted what into which entities?
staff into all the main ministries of the Nigerian government
How many Greenpeace activists boarded Fennica and Nordica in March 2012?
52
Why did Shell file lawsuits?
to seek injunctions from possible protests
How do creators of content protect their work from infringement?
routinely invoke legal and technological measures
How are disputes resolved for small scale infringement?
direct negotiation, a notice and take down process, or litigation in civil court
What terms are often linked to people who illegally use or distribute content that is not their own?
piracy and theft
What did the Royal Charter give to the Stationers' Company of London?
monopoly on publication and tasking it with enforcing the charter
When you are accused theft as it relates to copyright law, you are exercising exclusive rights without what?
authorization
What is a possible cause of copyright infringement?
partial compliance
What did Cara Cusumano say about piracy in 2014 that people want?
immediacy
Who made clear the motivations of the filmmakers?
Matt Deaner
What researchers conducted a study in the early part of May 2014?
University of Portsmouth
Even though piracy adds costs to production, what else is offered to developing countries?
main access to media goods
What happens when a country bans a movie?
the spread of copied videos and DVDs
In the U.S., where is copyright infringement contested?
civil court
Who can be assigned a contract to enforce a copyright in some jurisdictions?
third party
When was the first criminal part of copyright law in the U.S. added?
1897
When was United States v. LaMacchia contested?
1994
What federal law did the United States pass in 1997, in response to the LaMacchia Loophole?
No Electronic Theft Act
What directive in 2001 let European Union countries to enact laws that allowed making copies for personal use?
EU Copyright Directive of 2001
What does the personal copying exemption explicitly need?
was obtained legitimately
What is the U.S. law that uses the WIPO Copyright as it's Title I?
DMCA
What includes Internet portals, software and games?
intermediaries
Who did early court cases focus on?
Internet service providers
What law enacted in the U.S. in 1998 gave online intermediaries limited statutory immunity?
Digital Millennium Copyright Act
What do certain type of intermediaries NOT do?
host or transmit infringing content
What is the legal status of secondary liability?
subject of ongoing litigation
What does Article 10 of the Berne Convention call certain uses that limit copyright?
fair practice
What is it called when a law disallows copyright owners from denying a license for certain uses?
compulsory licensing
Where was the Public Relations Consultants Association Ltd v Newspaper Licensing Agency Ltd case contested?
Europe
If a work must include a degree of originality, what else must it contain to be protected?
in a fixed medium
Which country needs a similarity requirement to determine if the work was copied?
U.S.
Who takes different steps to prevent infringement?
Corporations and legislatures
How have governments lowered infringement rates?
narrowing the scope of what is considered infringing
What do some copyright owners do by reducing the scope of infringement?
employing relatively permissive, "open" licensing
How long is a movie typically released in theaters for?
approximately 16 and a half weeks
What 2010 body found how difficult it is to accurately report the financial impact of infringement?
U.S. GAO
Who did a study in 2007 regarding the five countries with the highest rates of software piracy?
BSA and International Data Corporation
Who else did the BSA issues a report in 2011 with?
IDC and Ipsos Public Affairs
Who reported that piracy took $12.5 billion from the U.S. economy?
Institute for Policy Innovation
What book did Professor Aram Sinnreich write?
The Piracy Crusade
What was the estimated total value of pirated software in 2010?
$59 billion
On what peninsula is Greece located?
Balkan peninsula
Who was the first person to bring all of Greece together?
Philip of Macedon
Greece is one of the members who founded what organization?
United Nations
What is one of the names the Greeks call their country?
Hellas
Humans in the Balkans have been dated to what year?
270,000 BC
Ancient Greece is considered to be where what was born?
Western civilization
When did the Olympic Game begin?
776 BC
In 500 BC, Greece was ruled over by who?
Persian Empire
The war from 431-404 BC is known as what? 
Peloponnesian War
Who controlled Macedon after Alexander died?
the Antigonid dynasty
What Roman Emperor became the ruler of all of Greece?
Augustus
In what language was the first book of the Bible conceived?
Greek
When did the Slavs invade Greece?
7th century
The Byzantine began taking back territories during the last of what century?
8th
Greece was split into sections of different rulers in what year?
1204
A lot of Greece was lost by whom in the 14th century?
Byzantine Empire
The Ottomans took which islands from the Venetians?
Cyprus and Crete
Due to discrimination, some Christians converted to what religion?
Islam
The Battle of of Lepanto took place in what year?
1571
Greece's Dark Ages is thought of as what time periods?
16th and 17th centuries
In which year did the Society of Friends begin?
1814
In what year did the Greeks take Tripolitsa?
1821
How many successive civil wars occurred between Greek clans?
two
What three countries sent their Navy to Greece?
Russia, the United Kingdom and France
In 1893 Greece announced what?
public insolvency
War between Russia and the Ottomans began in what year?
1877
What divided Greece into two political groups?
the country's foreign policy
What years did the Greco-Turkish war take place?
1919–1922
How many Greek refugees came from Turkey?
1.5 million
The Greek monarchy was reestablished by who?
Premier Georgios Kondylis
How many Greeks starved due to Nazi occupation?
Over 100,000
Who founded the PASOK?
Andreas Papandreou
Greece is where geographically?
Southern Europe
How tall is Mount Olympus?
9,573 ft
Where does the Pindus mountain range end?
the island of Crete
The Saronic gulf is near what city?
Athens
Greece's climate is mainly of what type?
Mediterranean
The climate of Greece in the Northwest is known as what?
Alpine climate
Greece's plant distribution belongs to what?
the Boreal Kingdom
What type of republic is Greece?
unitary parliamentary
The constitution was amended to reduce the President's power in what year?
1986
How many members are in Greece's parliament? 
300
In May 2012, who started the parliamentary elections?
The coalition government
Who is the head for Greece's foreign policy?
Minister for Foreign Affairs
What type of military service does Greece require?
universal compulsory
How many regions exist in Greece since 2011?
thirteen
The largest sector of Greece's economy is what?
the service sector
Greece's economy is what size?
larger than all the Balkan economies combined
What classification does the Greek economy hold?
advanced and high-income
What was used to hide debts?
swaps
Where is the Greek Merchant Navy ranked?
4th worldwide
Where does most of Greece's visitors come from?
the European continent
How long is the Greek railway system?
1,600 mi
In recent years, what usage has risen dramatically?
3G/4G mobile internet
Greece has been a member of what agency since 2005?
European Space Agency (ESA)
What Greek scientist invented the Pap test?
Georgios Papanikolaou
What is the religious minority in Greece?
Muslim
How many Greek natural citizens are Catholic?
50,000
When did the Greek Language dispute take place?
During the 19th and 20th centuries
What is the language spoken by most Greeks?
Greek
Muslims make up how much of the Greek population?
0.95%
Where are Slavic speaking groups generally found?
northern Greek borders
In 2001, how many Greek residents were not citizens?
762,191
Greece is a major destination for what to enter?
illegal immigrants
Paideia is also known as what?
education
Greece's secondary education has how many school types?
two
What is one of the education sectors according to the Framework Law?
University sector
What kind of health care exists in Greece?
universal health care
Where did Greece culture begin?
Mycenaean Greece
Greeks were pioneers in many scientific fields that require what?
systematic thought
Modern Greek theater began when?
early 19th century
Which disciple of Plato was considered the most important?
Aristotle of Stagira
What are two works by Homer?
Iliad and the Odyssey
What year did cinema first appear in Greece?
1896
Which time period is considered the golden age of Greek cinema? 
1950s and early 1960s
What other famous movie did Cacoyannis direct?
Zorba the Greek
What is a characteristic of the Mediterranean diet? 
Greek cuisine
What is the name of one sweet dessert in Greece?
galaktoboureko
Greek vocal music goes back how far in history?
ancient times
The Eastern Orthodox Church resisted what change in music?
polyphony
What are the two cycles of the Greek folk song?
akritic and klephtic
What was the forerunner of Greek modern song?
Heptanesean kantádhes
What music began associated with the lower classes?
Rebetiko
Through which islands was European classical music introduced to the Greeks?
Ionian
Who is one 20th century Greek composers that has had an impact on modern classical music?
Iannis Xenakis
How many time has Greece participated in the Eurovision Song Contest?
35
Greece is the birthplace of what sporting event?
Olympic Games
What ranking did the Greek national football team hold in 2014.
12th
The Greek national basketball team held what world ranking in 2012?
4th
In what year did Greece's women's water polo team win the World Championship?
2011
The Greek Men's national volleyball team has won how many bronze medals?
two
Where did the mythical Greek gods live?
Mount Olympus
Greek law says that every Sunday of the year is a what?
holiday
in 2012, what was the amount of the bailout?
$173 billion
Alexander III was the son of whom?
Phillip II
Which specific mammal is the largest today?
blue whale
Who coined the name "mammal" from the scientific name Mammalia?
Carl Linnaeus
How many species of mammals do not have a live birth?
five species
From which time period did birds and reptiles began to appear from?
Carboniferous period
Who defined mammalian as the crown group mammals?
Timothy Rowe
Which group are Ambondro's closely related to?
monotremes
Who wrote the "Principles of Classification and a Classification of Mammals?
George Gaylord Simpson
In 1997 who revised the classification of mammals?
Malcolm C. McKenna and Susan K. Bell
Through Molecular studies, what was used to suggest new relationships among mammal families?
DNA analysis
From which period did the first known amniotes arise from?
Carboniferous
From which dinosaur group did Therapsids descend from?
pelycosaurs
What was the name of extinction level event that ended the dominance of the carnivores among therapsids?
Permian–Triassic
What is the oldest know fossil among the Eutheria group? 
shrewlike Juramaia sinensis
How long ago did most placental orders diverge from?
100 to 85 million years ago
When is it believed that the earliest know hair was said to exist?
164 million years ago
Which group of animal has a lower body temperature that marsupials and placentals?
monotremes
When air enters both the oral and nasal cavities, where does it flow through?
larynx, trachea and bronchi
What is the typical thickness of the epidermis?
10 to 30 cells thick
What is another name used for mammalian hair?
pelage
What is the common mammal group that gives birth to live young?
viviparous
Which sub class are most viviparous mammals in?
Theria
Which part is larger relative to the brain in primates?
cerebrum
To be able to maintain a constant body temperature, what do mammals need to maintain?
nutritious and plentiful diet
What is the name given when zones of gradation exits?
clines
The Spanish Armada suffered a defeat in what year?
1588
What did the Queen give them for suceeding?
a Royal Charter
Where was the first factory in south India?
town of Machilipatnam on the Coromandel Coast of the Bay of Bengal
when was the bombay trading post established?
1668
Name the wars that was caused by the intense competition between the EIC and Dutch East India Company
Anglo-Dutch Wars of the 17th and 18th centuries
How much treasure was taken by pirates?
£50,000 to £60,000
how many gold and silver pieces were on the Ganj-i-Sawai?
500,000
Who caused the first worldwide manhunt?
Every
enlish firms were allow to trade with  India unless?
prohibited by act of parliament
in 1720 what % of  import goods were from India? 
15%
The British Government agrree to extend the licensed for the company in India until 1793 for how much money
£1 million
what was the type of  Revolution that allowed Britian to move ahead of its European rivals?
Industrial Revolution
Due to agreed debt what 250 tons  product was first permitted to be exported by the company after the seven years' war?
saltpetre
what year was the Treaty of Paris agreed on?
1763
what is the acronym for the East india company?
EIC
how many Anglo Maratha wars were there?
three
What was the name of EIC military company?
Addiscombe Military Seminary
in 1838 what was the sentence for smuggling opium in to China?
death penalty
EIC was leased back the land they held in British India by what part of the British goverment?
Parliament
in British indian a jugde had to come from where to oversee the  legal system?
British
The name of the Act that was a failure in creating bourdaries for the Crown and the EIC for being subjective?
Pitt's Act
by the middle of the 19th century how much of the worlds population was effected by EIC and it trade?
fifth
What Lord helped the EIC through his politics, take control over all of india?
Lord Wellesley
Where were the EIC  headquarters located?
London
in 1803 was act of parliament supported by  EIC? 
promoted by the East India Company
in the period of  1600 what Canton cross repesented England
St George's Cross
What does DEUS INDICAT mean?
God Indicates
The EIC Arms feature what king of the jungle animal on it?
lion
During what war Did the EIC get letter of marque for its vessels
Napoleonic Wars
What was the most notable naval victory EIC  had?
Battle of Pulo Aura
Where are the records of the EIC housed today?
British Library in London
Which state is not a member of the Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)?
East Timor
What country is Nicobar Island apart of?
India
How many years ago did Homo sapiens reached the Southeast Asia region?
45,000 years ago
Which kingdom during 200 BCE that is located in Java and Sumatra exist?
Jawa Dwipa Hindu
Which Indianised kingdom was based in eastern java?
The Majapahit Empire
Which kingdom did the Chola navy attack during the 11th century?
Srivijaya kingdom
In the 15th century, the ruler of which port embraced Islam?
Malacca Sultanate
The western colonies were invaded by whom during World War II?
Imperial Japan
Name the largest country in Southeast Asia.
Indonesia
What is the climate like in Southeast Asia?
tropical–hot and humid
Name the line that splits the Indonesian Archipelago?
Wallace Line
Where on Earth is the highest marine activity recorded?
Raja Ampat
What percentage of plant and animal species extinction is predicted in the 21st century?
40%
Name some important commodities that originated in Southeast asian region?
pepper, ginger, cloves, and nutmeg
The origin of which community can be traced to the 16th century?
Chinese
What reserves are abundant in Southeast Asia?
Oil reserves
Of the Southeast Asian countries, which one's key economic development is based on Tourism?
Cambodia
What is the approximate area of Southeast Asia?
4,000,000 km2
name the largest ethnic group in Southeast Asia.
the Javanese
Which religion is widely practiced in Southeast Asia?
Islam
Which is Asia's largest christian nation?
Philippines
Arabia has a strong influence in which Southeast Asian country?
Brunei
Where did the Southeast Asians introduce their dance?
into their court
What were the favorite forms of entertainment in Southeast Asia?
Puppetry and shadow plays
What did the Khmer & Indonesian classical arts depict of?
the life of the gods
Which form of writing extended before the invention of paper?
palm leaf
What is professional wrestling abbreviated as?
pro wrestling
How are the actions conducted?
the combative actions and reactions are executed in special manners designed to both protect from, yet simulate, pain
What part of the world has wrestling become less popular in?
it has greatly declined in Europe
Where does the money made from wrestling come from?
live event ticket sales, network television broadcasts, pay-per-view broadcasts, personal appearances by performers, branded merchandise and home video
What is one popular wrestling film?
2008 film The Wrestler
What is the biggest wrestling company?
the United States-based WWE
Who confessed that wrestling was not competition?
prominent figures in the wrestling business (including WWE owner Vince McMahon)
How do the wrestlers treat the audience?
The audience is recognized and acknowledged by the performers as spectators
Who wins in a wrestling match?
the first side to achieve the majority number of pinfalls, submissions, or countouts being the winner.
What happens when a wrestler has a fall against them?
is forced out of the match
What is the most common of the special matches?
The most common of these is the ladder match
What determines how the referee acts?
their actions are also frequently scripted for dramatic effect
What kind of referees are occasionally used?
Special guest referees may be used from time to time;
What material is within a wrestling ring?
an elevated square canvas mat with posts on each corner.
What does a "tag" entail?
Two wrestlers must make physical contact (typically palm-to-palm) in order to transfer this legal status.
What happens in a fatal four-way?
four wrestlers, each for themselves, fight in a match, but only two wrestlers can be in the match at any given time.
At what point can a count be started? 
any time that a wrestler's shoulders are down (both shoulders touching the mat), back-first and any part of the opponent's body is lying over the wrestler.
What happens during a pin attempt?
one wrestler is covering another prone, back-first wrestler can be considered a pin attempt
What is a pinning method that isn't allowed?
using the ropes for leverage and hooking the opponent's clothing,
How can a wrestler willingly submit?
verbally informing the referee
Several well-known wrestlers were famous for winning with a move called what?
submission
Many holds will leave what body parts free?
an arm or leg
How does a referee check for a knockout?
a referee will wave their hand in front of the wrestler's face
In what case can a referee choose to end the match?
when they or official ring physician decides that a wrestler cannot safely continue the match
What are a couple other ways to write countout?
"count-out" or "count out"
What else is disqualification called?
DQ
What are the usual reasons for an automatic disqualification? 
low blows, weapon usage, interference, or assaulting the referee
What is one way a match can end?
in a draw
What kind of injury can cause a no contest ruling?
debilitating
What is the point of a match?
to excite and entertain the audience
What do most wrestlers do, as far as how they act?
portray character roles
What is the popular way for wrestlers to refer to one another?
by their stage names/characters
What are other names for a protagonist?
babyface, or "the good guy"
What might a character do with their persona?
turn
Who is a wrestler who never turned? 
Ricky Steamboat
Who helps out a wrestler with poor speaking abilities?
manager
What do most matches have?
a story analogous to a scene in a play or film, or an episode of a serial drama:
What are rivalries often called?
feuds
What supernatural things have been portrayed in matches?
magic, curses, the undead and Satanic imagery
What happens behind the scenes of a match?
bookers in a company will place the title on the most accomplished performer,
What does it show when a wrestler has many titles?
ability to maintain audience interest and/or a wrestler's ability to perform in the ring
What occurs when a wrestler enters the ring?
accompanied by music
Who won the women's title in 1937?
Mildred Burke
What is professional female wrestling called in Japan?
joshi puroresu
What does a mixed tag team consist of?
a male and female on each team
When were intergender singles bouts fought on a national scale? 
1990s
A wrestler may have a small person called what?
mini me
Who are the most well-known wrestling bears?
Ginger, Victor, Hercules and Terrible Ted
What does every match have?
a story
How do characters differ in Mexican wrestling?
they are less emphasized
How is Japanese wrestling similar to American?
outcome of the matches remains predetermined
What is expected of newcomers? 
to "pay their dues" for a few years by working in lower-profile promotions
What do the fans have?
their own subculture
What do some fans like to do?
collecting tapes of wrestling shows
What kind of notoriety have wrestlers achieved?
fame within mainstream society
Name a popular series of boxing films?
Rocky series
What other areas has wrestling garnered interest from?
academic study and journalistic criticism
What impact did the revelation of wrestling being "fixed" have?
looked down on as a cheap entertainment for the uneducated working class
What is wrestling sometimes called?
"soap opera for males"
Who has studied the lives of wrestlers?
Documentary filmmakers
What are the risks of wrestling?
high chance of injury, and even death
What does the film's quantum efficiency limit? 
sensitivity
What consists of 25 pigmented squares touching a plate below a phosphorescent tablet under the light of a burning Magnesium ribbon?
The Warnerke Standard Sensitometer
Who created the Scheinergrade system? 
the German astronomer Julius Scheiner
Who developed a device that improved on the shortcomings of Scheiner's invention?
Austrian scientist Josef Maria Eder (1855–1944) and Flemish-born botanist Walter Hecht (de)
When was the DIN system established? 
January 1934
What unit was used in the DIN to express speeds? 
degrees
What took the place of the German DIN 4512 system?
ISO 6:1974, ISO 2240:1982, and ISO 5800:1979
What system was used previous to the ASA system?
the system of Weston film speed ratings
Which cameras were first of their type to adopt the ASA scale?
The Weston Cadet (model 852 introduced in 1949), Direct Reading (model 853 introduced 1954) and Master III (models 737 and S141.3 introduced in 1956)
Which company adopted the ASA scale in 1946?
General Electric
Who pioneered research that led to the new ANSI values?
Loyd Ancile Jones
In what year were big changes made to the ANSI?
1960
What is the plot from which film speed is derived called?
the D–log H curve or Hurter–Driffield curve
What is the effective f-number proportional to?
the ratio between the lens focal length and aperture diameter
What determines the effect on the emulsion after exposure?
the amount of light energy that reaches the film
What are two examples of films that are marketed with speeds above their true ISO speed?
Ilford Delta 3200 and Kodak T-MAX P3200
What is another name for an exposure index rating?
ISO setting
What types of cameras have proven to be much more sensitive to light than film?
Digital cameras
How many techniques are available because of ISO 12232:2006?
five
What option does the Recommended Exposure Index give manufacturers? 
to specify a camera model’s EI choices arbitrarily
What year was the Standard Output Sensitivity technique introduced?
2006
Which methods are required by CIPA DC-004?
REI or SOS techniques
What does the sensor usually determine?
lower limit of the saturation speed
Which ratios are employed to calculate noise-based speed?
the 40:1 ("excellent image quality") and the 10:1 ("acceptable image quality") ratio
What is the range for exposure latitude?
from the saturation-based speed to the 10:1 noise-based speed
What measures might the user "ISO" setting correspond to?
the noise-based speed, saturation-based speed, or the specified output sensitivity, or even some made-up number for marketing purposes
How man feet above sea level is Mexico City
7,350
How big is Mexico City's GDP?
US$411 billion
What was the original name of Mexico City?
Tenochtitlan
Why can't Mexico City become a state?
Because of a clause in the Mexican Constitution
What was the labor draft called?
the desagüe
What is a common nickname for Mexico City?
The city of palaces
When did Mexico gain independence? 
September 27, 1821
Who commanded the U.S. Army in the battle against Mexico City?
Winfield Scott
Who led the 4th division?
John A. Quitman
When was most of the urbanization completed? 
by 1908
What was turned into a monument after the war? 
the main dome of Diaz's new senate hall
Who was the leader at the end of the Mexican Revolution?
Plutarco Elias Calles
How many of the industrial jobs in the county were based in Mexico City in the late 20th century?
half
What day of the week did the major earthquake strike Mexico City?
Thursday
What is the minimum height in meters of the region Mexico City is located in?
2,200
When did draining of Lake Texcoco begin?
17th century
How much rain falls on Mexico City?
820 millimetres (32.3 in)
What happened to the dikes the Aztecs built?
destroyed during the siege of Tenochtitlan
How bad is the ozone in Mexico City?
2.5 times beyond WHO-defined safe limits
What is the bus system called in Mexico City?
Metrobús
What was the other city in the running to become capital of Mexico?
Querétaro
When was Mexico City declared the capital?
November 18, 1824
How many smaller cities did Mexico City make up at its height?
twenty-two
When were the powers of the municipalities of Mexico City first reduced?
1903
When was the General Anaya borough officially merged into Mexico City?
1941
If Mexico City was declared a state, how many states would be in the federation?
32
When did the Federal District receive more power? 
1987
Who was elected to be the head of government in 2006?
Marcelo Ebrard
What is the local government of Mexico City called?
The Legislative Assembly of the Federal District
What is the maximum percentage of seats a single party can control?
63
When was gay marriage legalized in Mexico City?
December 2009
How many boroughs make up Mexico City?
16
What is the oldest part of the city?
The Historic Center
Where are many of the wealthy neighborhoods located? 
West of the Historic Center
What type of population lives in Tiahuac?
rural
Where is much of the industry now located?
nearby municipalities in the State of Mexico
How many boroughs had very high HDI scores in 2005?
three
What borough had the lowest HDI score in the federal district?
Iztapalapa
How large is the budget of the IMSS?
over 6 billion pesos
What do new cars in Mexico need to have?
catalytic converter
What percentage of the National GDP does the Federal District produce?
15.8
Who privatized the airlines of Mexico?
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari
in 1921, what percent of Mexico City's population Mestizo?
54.78
How many people live in the Federal District? 
8.7 million
What countries do most of the South American immigrants come from?
Argentina and Colombia
Who designated the floating gardens as a World Heritage site?
UNESCO
What is the most popular icon of Mexico City?
golden Angel of Independence
Chapultepec Castle is located where?
Chapultepec Park
How many museums are in Mexico City?
about 160
How large is the metro system of Mexico City?
225.9 km (140 mi)
What is the name of the city's fast bus line?
Metrobús
What are the one-way roads in Mexico city called?
ejes viales
How do people know which days to not drive their car?
ending digit of their license plates
What is the name of the parking meter system in Mexico City?
ecoParq
What is the name of the city's bike sharing system?
EcoBici
What is the name of the major airport in Mexico City?
Mexico City International Airport
When did the second terminal open at the Mexico City Airport?
2007
When were the new plans of the airport revealed?
September 2, 2014
When did Mexico City lost most of its artifacts? 
Conquest of Mexico
What comprised most of the early art of Mexico City?
codices
What is the large art school in Mexico City?
Academia de San Carlos
Who was a big proponent of modernism in art?
José Luis Cuevas
When was the Museo Tamayo opened?
mid-1980s
Who is the Museo Soumaya named after?
the wife of Mexican magnate Carlos Slim
When did the Museum of Remembrance and Tolerance open?
2011
Where does the Mexico City Philharmonic perform?
Sala Ollin Yoliztli
How many people does the National Auditorium hold?
10,000
How many sets are in the Teatro Metropolitan?
3,000
Where is the Centro Cultural Universitario?
UNAM's main campus
What makes the Papalote children's museum so famous?
world's largest dome screen
Where is the Mexican Film Library located?
near the Coyoacán suburb
How many states does Mexico have?
31
What opera legend also has a famous restaurant in Mexico City?
Plácido Domingo
What famous soccer stadium is in Mexico City?
Azteca Stadium
What year did Mexico City host the olympics?
1968
What university is the largest of the continent?
The National Autonomous University of Mexico
What is the second biggest education center in Mexico City?
National Polytechnic Institute
Who is in charge of the education in Mexico City?
Secretary of Public Education
Who created El Colegio Nacional?
Miguel Alemán Valdés
How many newspaper call Mexico City home?
Dozens
What are mobile markets in Mexico City called?
tianguis
What are the markets called that are located and run by the boroughs?
mercado
Similar tianguis might set up shop where?
plazas comerciales
Where is the Chapultepec Zoo located?
Chapultepec Park in the Miguel Hidalgo
Who termed the slogan "la Ciudad de la Esperanza?"
Andrés López Obrador
What are locals of Mexico City called?
chilangos
How many crimes occurred around the turn of the latest century? 
average of 478 crimes were reported each day
Approximately how many of the world population speak German as a native language? 
100 million
What emperor forced the Germanic tribes to the east side of the Rhine?
Julius Caesar
During the Migrations period Germans would encounter what groups in the east?
Balts and Slavs
how many tribes are credited with the creation of the modern day germans?
five tribes
What period in history do we see the emergence of German culture?
High Middle Ages
The Expansion of Germany  by the Catholic Church into the areas of the Slavs and balts is know as what?
Ostsiedlung
German's domination of trade in the Eastern Europe was credited to what?
naval innovations
By what time period had many of the Jewish  population joined the Holy Roman Empire?
Middle Ages
What was one of the main factors that caused the dissolve of the Holy Roman Empire?
Napoleonic Wars
When did the strife between Austria and Prussia erupt?
1866
When did France attack Prussia? 
1870
What leader tried to unite all people considered themselves "German"
Adolf Hitler
With the conclusion of World War 2 what did most Eastern Europe countries do with their German citizens?
expelled the Germans
What is credited with the origins of the German identity?
Protestant Reformation
Residence that speak German as their mother tongue and  families have been in place for generations are often consider?
most German
What is the native language of Germans?
German
How many German Americans are there?
50 million
Who is a German philosopher from the middle ages?
Albertus Magnus
Who discovered X-Rays?
Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen
From which country is Bach, Mozart and Beethoven from?
Germany
In 2008,, where was Germany ranked as a world music market?
fourth largest
Who was the original German cinematic?
Max Skladanowsky
In what year was the never ending story made?
1984
In what year did Martin Luther challenge the Catholic Church?
1517
What percentage of Germans are Roman Catholic?
30.8
How many Germans are members of sports clubs?
27 million
What year was the turning point for Germany in the Nation Brands Index?
2006
In what century did the Pan-Germanisms origins begin?
19th
Who were the two most powerful nations in the 1860's?
Kingdom of Prussia and the Austrian Empire
What greatly reduced the size of Germany after WWI?
treaty of Versailles
What percentage of 14 year olds said they were proud to be German in 2009?
60
Who was Poland's foreign minister in 2011?
Radek Sikorski
What is the largest city in Connecticuty?
Bridgeport
How many Puritans were in the initial group that settled New Haven?
five hundred
How did New Haven colony differ from Connecticut colony in regard to religion?
New Haven colony was an intolerant theocracy that did not permit other churches to be established
What is the name given to the celebrated date of 23 April 1775 in New Haven?
Powder House Day
What is the name of the General who led the raid against New Haven on July 5, 1779?
General William Tryon
Who is the Yale graduate, inventor, and arms manufacturer that had a large positive impact on the New Haven economy in the late 18th century?
Eli Whitney
In what year did an important trial take place which situated New Haven among the forefront of the growing anti-slavery movement?
1839
What major war stimulated the New Haven economy by way of industrial goods purchased through the New Haven Arms Company?
American Civil War
What New Haven mayor is responsible for projects that placed the city among the forefront of urban renewal in the U.S. circa 1954? 
Richard C. Lee
In approximately what year did revitalization most recently begin to occur in downtown New Haven?
2000
What multi-use project in New Haven is the largest residential building in Connecticut?
360 State Street
In what year did the U.S. Supreme Court entertain a lawsuit filed by 18 New Haven firefighters against the city of New Haven?
2009
Funding was awarded to Connecticut in 2010 and 2011 to build what line with a southern terminus in New Haven?
Hartford Line
In addition to the New Haven Harbor, what additional natural element is a prominent geographic feature of the area, flanking the northeast and northwest boundaries?
basalt trap rock ridges
By how many rivers is the city of New Haven drained?
three
Though harboring transitive properties, what Koppen climate classification does the New Haven climate more closely characterize?
Dfa
On what type of city plan was New Haven laid out upon the founding of the area?
grid plan of nine square blocks
Approximately how many residents make up the population of downtown New Haven?
7,000
What area of New Haven comprises the area centered around the business district and New Haven Green?
Downtown
What sector originally provided the largest contribution to New Haven's economy?
manufacturing
What Fortune 1000 company, also the largest Catholic service organization in the world, is based in New Haven?
The Knights of Columbus
How many households are located in New Haven according to the 2010 U.S. Census Bureau report?
47,094
What is the most prominent religion in New Haven?
Roman Catholic
What former U.S. president was born in New Haven?
George W. Bush
What is the title of the political science book, written by a Yale professor, that explores New Haven politics and history throughout the 1950's?
Who Governs? Democracy and Power in An American City
What New Haven trial is known to be the longest in the history of Connecticut?
New Haven Black Panther trials
In what year did the U.S. Supreme Court agree to hear a lawsuit originally filed by 20 white and Hispanic firefighters seeking relief from the city of New Haven?
2009
Who is the famous comic strip author of Doonesbury that attended Yale University in New Haven?
Garry Trudeau
Analysis by what organization detailed that municipality-based rankings may be inaccurate? 
Regional Data Cooperative for Greater New Haven, Inc
What private university is located in downtown New Haven?
Yale University
What private school, with the notable distinction of being the fifth-oldest educational institution in the U.S., was founded in New Haven?
Hopkins School
What scholarship is awarded in New Haven by Yale University to public school students meeting specified criteria?
New Haven Promise
What distinction was afforded to New Haven in 2014 by Livability.com?
Best Foodie City
What dish is commonly considered to be penultimate culinary achievement in New Haven?
New Haven-style pizza
What landmark New Haven fast food establishment is located on Crown Street?
Louis' Lunch
At what cross streets, marking the center of the Hospital Green of Yale - New Haven Hospital, do food carts congregate on weekdays?
Cedar and York streets
In addition to Yale Reparatory Theatre, what are two additional major theatre houses located in New Haven?
Long Wharf Theatre, and the Shubert Theatre
At what New Haven museum is an original copy of the Gutenberg Bible housed? 
Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library
What is the name of a prominent contemporary art gallery on Orange Street in New Haven?
Artspace
What public area in New Haven is home to free concerts in the summer?
New Haven Green
To what annual art festival is the city of New Haven home?
International Festival of Arts and Ideas
What is the name of the major daily editorial newspaper for the city of New Haven?
New Haven Register
What NFL team played at the Yale Bowl from 1973-1974?
New York Giants
What 1995 mayor of New Haven sought to reinvent the area into a northeastern hub of art and culture?
John DeStefano, Jr.
In what year did New Haven host the Special Olympic Summer World Games?
1995
New Haven served as home to what two notable 19th century architects?
Ithiel Town and Henry Austin
How many properties in New Haven are featured on the National Register of Historic Places? 
59
What structure was ordered to be built in New Haven in 1776 to protect the port at the outset of the Revolutionary War?
Black Rock Fort
What cemetery in New Haven is situated next to the campus of Yale University and has been designated a National Historic Landmark? 
Grove Street
Throughout the Roaring Twenties, what public beach in New Haven was a favored destination for tourists?
Lighthouse Point Park
How many Amtrak lines service Union Station?
four
What form of public transportation preceded the current New Haven Division bus routes?
trolley service
What rail trail is slated to run between downtown New Haven and Northampton, Massachusetts? 
The Farmington Canal Trail
In what year did Orange Street receive the first bike lane in New Haven?
2004
What major interstate provides access between New Haven and New York City?
Interstate 95
What downtown New Haven expressway spur intersects at exit 1 of 1-91?
The Oak Street Connector
What east-west artery in New Haven serves Union Station? 
U.S. Route 1
In what harbor is the Port of New Haven located?
New Haven Harbor
How many major medical centers are located in downtown New Haven?
two
Yale and New Haven are conjointly attempting to build the area into a research hub for what two industries?
medical and biotechnology
On the median strip of what road is New Haven planning to create a secondary biotechnology district?
Frontage
What static inverter plant lies near New Haven? 
HVDC Cross Sound Cable
At what former lodging facility in New Haven were scenes from the 1950's classic, All About Eve, filmed?
Taft Hotel
What 2003 movie featuring Julia Roberts was filmed in New Haven?
Mona Lisa Smile
In what Fitzgerald classic does the fictional protagonist make repeated references to New Haven?
The Great Gatsby
What infamous Doors frontman was once arrested in New Haven?
Jim Morrison
How many students attend BYU on campus?
29,672
For what reason to many student's postpone their enrollment to BYU?
to serve as Mormon missionaries
What is BYU's main focal point?
undergraduate education
When was the first property for what would become BYU acquired?
October 16, 1875
What college did BYU separate from to become its own entity?
University of Deseret
In what year was Brigham Young Academy split into two separate schools?
1903
What sort of credentials did Franklin S. Harris have?
doctoral degree
Who was responsible for the BYU's first campus outside of the U.S.?
Jeffrey R. Holland
What infamous event occurred during Bateman's term as president?
the September 11th attacks
What percentage of applicants did BYU accept for it's summer term and fall semester in 2013?
49
Who ranked BYU as the best college in Utah?
Forbes Magazine
Who ranked BYU's Marriott School of Mangement as No. 5 for it's undergrad programs in 2009?
BusinessWeek
Which BYU college was founded by former alumnus Harvey Fletcher?
College of Engineering
What percentage of the student body of BYU has some proficiency in a second language?
Over three quarters
How manys students take advantage of BYU's study abroad programs?
Nearly 2,000
What is the largest and longest-running university-run foreign film program in the U.S.?
BYU's International Cinema
In what year did BYU draft a new Statement on Academic Freedom?
1992
Which system is BYU part of?
Church Educational System of LDS Church
Why does BYU's Winter semester end earlier than most colleges?
there is no Spring break
How many buildings are on BYU's main campus?
295
How many photographs are in BYU's Museum of Peoples and Cultures?
50,000
How many people does the de Jong Concert Hall seat?
1282
What is BYU working to increase by installing various speed drives on all pumps and fans?
energy efficiency of its buildings
What BYU group is known as one of the best formation ballroom dance teams in the world?
Ballroom Dance Company
How many NCAA varsity teams does BYU have?
21
What is the stated mission of BYU?
"is to assist individuals in their quest for perfection and eternal life."
What phrase have some Latter-day Saints used in reference to BYU's mission as ambassador to the world for the LDS Church?
"The Lord's university"
What does BYU mandate of it's student members of the LDS Church to be?
religiously active
At what age, since 2012, are men allowed to serve a mission after high school graduation?
18
What group did President Maeser create that sent teachers to student's homes to verify they were following the school's moral rules?
Domestic Organization
How was BYU ranked by The Princeton Review for having the happiest students and highest quality of life in 2008?
14th in the nation
What is one of BYU's characteristics that is most often pointed out through reputation?
emphasizing a "marriage culture"
Who rated BYU as the #1 stone cold sober school in the nation for several years?
The Princeton Review
How many television production studios is BYU Broadcasting Technical Operations Center home to?
three
What is former alumnus Paul D. Boyer known for being?
Nobel Prize winner
Where did best selling author Stephenie Meyer graduate from in 1995?
BYU
Which three-time Olympic medalist and Hall of Famer graduated from BYU?
Krešimir Ćosić
What does MI stand for?
Myocardial infarction
What can ECG confirm?
ST elevation
What can be used for immediate treatment for MI?
Aspirin
What is the most common symptom of MI?
Chest pain
When might an individual experience shortness of breath?
heart limits the output of the left ventricle
What sorts of departments might one see in a major department store?
clothing, furniture, home appliances, toys, cosmetics, gardening, toiletries, sporting goods
When did the idea of a "consumer society" begin? 
at the turn of the 19th century.
Who became the predominant shoppers for individual households in the nineteenth century? 
women
Who founded Selfridges in 1909?
Harry Gordon Selfridge
What were the origins of the Paris department store? 
magasin de nouveautés
What store was founded in Paris, in 1838, which sold a wide variety of products? 
Au Bon Marché
Where was The Grands Magasins Dufayel built? 
the northern part of Paris
What is recognized as the "first" department store in America?
Arnold, Constable
Where was the "Marble Palace" built in 1846?
on Broadway, between Chambers and Reade streets
Who opened the original "modern" department store in America?
John Wanamaker
In what year was Marshall Field and company established? 
1852
What occupation did David Jones have?
merchant
What were some of the original Australian department stores? 
Grace Bros. and Waltons
What business was the Hudson's Bay Company originally involved in? 
the fur trade
What is one type of competition department stores face? 
specialist stores
What began the influx of Chinese department stores?
opening policy in 1979
What year did Lane Crawford open? 
1850
What are the 3 main department store companies in Denmark? 
Magasin (1868), Illum (1891), Salling (1906).
What are two main department stores in France?
Galeries Lafayette and Le Printemps
What cities influenced how department stores in Germany operated? 
London, Paris and New York.
Where did the Metro Department store originally begin?
Singapore and Sogo from Japan
What store did Parkson buy in 2011? 
Centro Department Store
When did Ireland begin to see a growth in its middle class?
mid-nineteenth century.
What Mexican department store typically caters to high-end goods?
El Palacio de Hierro
What sorts of goods do the most popular department stores in New Zealand offer? 
high-end and luxury items
How did Panama's department stores originally begin? 
as textile retailers
When was the first department store in the Philippines opened?
1877
What department store in Puerto Rico is named after an American city?
La New York
When was Saint Petersburg established? 
early 18th century
What group was established in 1921 in response to the clash between socialism and consumerism? 
State Department Stores (GUM)
Where is the most notable Russian department store located?
Moscow
What department store chain operates the most stores? 
Lotte Department Store
What was the name of the first Spanish department store?
Almacenes el Siglo
What is the former name of John Lewis Newcastle? 
Bainbridge
Who purchased a small shop in 1835, which would eventually become Kendals?
Kendal Milne and Faulkner
When did Garfinckel's begin operating in Washington? 
1905
How many stores was J. C. Penny operating in 1930?
1452
In what year did Hudson's address the issue of parking within cities?
1954
Who opened Dayton's Dry Goods?
George Dayton
In what year did Horne began doing business?
1849
Which constitution gave legislative power to protect intellectual property?
the North German Confederation
When was the patent case Davoll et al. v. Brown ruled on?
October 1845
Jewish law includes which principle used to justify copyright?
Hasagat Ge'vul (unfair encroachment)
Who grants a patent?
the government
What is the stated objective of most intellectual property law?
Promote progress.
How much was the worth of intellectual property to the U.S. economy in 2013?
more than US$5 trillion
What is caused by using or selling a patented invention without permission?
Patent infringement
When was the ACTA trade agreement signed?
May 2011
What occurs when someone uses a trademark that is identical or confusingly similar to a trademark owned by someone else?
Trademark infringement
Which type of intellectual property is secret?
trade secrets
Which term is criticized as vague?
intellectual property
Who founded the Free Software Foundation?
Richard Stallman
Stallman thinks what type of IP historically served as a censorship system?
copyright
Who is one advocate of copyleft?
Lawrence Lessig
What can be harmed by pharmaceutical patents?
health
Who recognizes that conflicts may exist between IP and other human rights?
World Intellectual Property Organization
For what type of goods are IP's ethical problems most pertinent?
socially valuable
What type of creativity is excluded from the US definition of IP?
community creativity
What is the American film industry's trade organization?
Motion Picture Association of America
What does the recording industry call piracy?
copyright infringement
When was the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights ratified?
1994
What does Florida stand for 
Florida i/ˈflɒrɪdə/ (Spanish for "flowery land")
What is the longest Contiguous Coastline in the US 
it has the longest coastline in the contiguous United States, approximately 1,350 miles
What conquistador landed in Florida in 1539 
Hernando de Soto
What did Spain trade Florida for
In 1763, Spain traded Florida to the Kingdom of Great Britain for control of Havana, Cuba
What were the names of the 2 British colony's in Florida 
British East Florida and British West Florida
What legal system was introduced by the British in Florida 
British governors were directed to call general assemblies
Where did English and Scotch Irish descent move to Florida from 
English descent and Americans of Scots-Irish descent began moving into northern Florida from the backwoods of Georgia and South Carolina
What led to the rebellion in 1810 
Spanish rule
Where did Seminole Indians raid 
Seminole Indians based in East Florida began raiding Georgia settlements
Why did Madrid cede the territory to the US 
Florida had become a burden to Spain, which could not afford to send settlers or garrisons
What was an issue in the early 1800's 
Indian removal was a significant issue
What tempers the Florida Climate 
somewhat by the fact that no part of the state is distant from the ocean
What is Florida's nickname 
Sunshine State
What posses a threat each year to Florida 
Hurricanes pose a severe threat
What is found in Florida 
Extended systems of underwater caves, sinkholes and springs
What is the population of Florida 
The United States Census Bureau estimates that the population of Florida was 20,271,272 on July 1, 2015
How severe are Florida disenfranchisement laws 
Florida is among the three states with the most severe felony disenfranchisement laws.
What percentage of the population considers themselves American 
6.9% of the population (1,269,765) considered themselves to be of only American ancestry
As of 2010 what percentage of Florida was white / non Hispanic 
those of (non-Hispanic white) European ancestry accounted for 57.9% of Florida's population
What percentage of the Florida population in 2010 was Hispanic 
Hispanic or Latino ancestry ancestry accounted for 22.5% (4,223,806) of Florida's population
What percentage of Florida was African american in 2010 
As of 2010, those of African ancestry accounted for 16.0% of Florida's population
Voter demographics of florida in the 1950's 
1952 to 1964, most voters were registered Democrats, but the state voted for the Republican presidential candidate in every election except for 1964
What party dominated florida politics from 1930 to 1960 
1930s through much of the 1960s, Florida was essentially a one-party state dominated by white conservative Democrats
The first post- reconstruction era republican elected to florida 
William C. Cramer in 1954 from Pinellas County
What did democrat voters do in 1998 
In 1998, Democratic voters dominated areas of the state with a high percentage of racial minorities and transplanted white liberals
What is the make up politically of florida's fastest growing area 
Daytona Beach, Orlando, and Tampa/St. Petersburg, has had a fairly even breakdown of Republican and Democratic voters
What has reappointment done to florida 
Reapportionment following the 2010 United States Census gave the state two more seats in the House of Representatives
What hapend in the 2000 election 
Out of more than 5.8 million votes for the two main contenders Bush and Al Gore, around 500 votes separated the two candidates
Why did the 2 districts have to be redrawn in 2014 
that at least two districts had to be redrawn because of gerrymandering
What was Florida's GDP in 2010
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of Florida in 2010 was $748 billion
What was the mortgage delinquency rate in 2008 
Florida had the highest mortgage delinquency rate in the country, with 7.8% of mortgages delinquent at least 60 days
What did Hurricane Andrew cause Florida to do 
the state of Florida began investing in economic development through the Office of Trade
What architectural styles are in Florida 
architectural styles including Spanish revival, Florida vernacular, and Mediterranean Revival Style
What train line connects florida to the North 
Amtrak, operating numerous lines throughout, connecting the state's largest cities to points north in the United States and Canada
What is headquartered in Daytona 
NASCAR (headquartered in Daytona Beach) begins all three of its major auto racing series in Florida at Daytona International Speedway in February
What was the name of Brian May and Roger Taylor's band before Queen?
Smile
Tim Staffell left the band Smile in what year?
1970
John Deacon played what instrument?
bass
Who designed Queen's logo?
Mercury
Who offered Queen a management deal in 1972?
Norman Sheffield
In what year was Queen's first album released?
1973
What was the name of Queen's second LP?
Queen II
What was Brian May diagnosed with after collapsing in 1974?
hepatitis
Which song was Queen's first US hit?
Killer Queen
Who created the costumes for Queen's 1975 tour?
Zandra Rhodes
Which Queen album was released in 1975?
A Night at the Opera
Which Queen song was number one on the UK charts for nine weeks?
Bohemian Rhapsody
What Queen album was released in 1976?
A Day at the Races
Where did Queen host a free concert in 1976? 
Hyde Park, London
Queen's sixth album was released in what year?
1977
In what year did Queen release the album Jazz?
1978
Who organized the Concert for the People of Kampuchea?
Paul McCartney
Queen performed several sold out shows at what US venue?
Madison Square Garden
What band was the first major band to play in Latin American stadiums?
Queen
What album did Queen release in 1982? 
Hot Space
Which Queen tour was the first to feature Spike Edney?
Spike Edney
What date was Live Aid?
13 July 1985
The audience at Live Aid clapped to what Queen Song?
Radio Ga Ga
What year was Queen's One Vision released?
1985
Queen's final tour with Freddie Mercury was in what year?
1986
Who did Freddie Mercury collaborate with in 1988?
Montserrat Caballé, Barcelona
When did Queen end their contract with Capitol?
1990
What was one single from Queen's Innuendo that charted in the UK?
The Show Must Go On
When was Freddie Mercury's deathbed confession made?
23 November 1991
Which movie featured Queen's Bohemian Rhapsody?
Wayne's World
When was the Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert held?
20 April 1992
What was Queen's final album featuring Mercury vocals compiled from earlier recordings called?
Made in Heaven
In what year did Queen release No-One but You
1997
Which two members of Queen performed together at several charity concerts?
Brian May and Roger Taylor
What year was Queen's third greatest hits album released?
1999
Paul Rodgers joined Queen in what year?
2005
Between what years did Queen and Paul Rodgers first embark on a world tour?
Between 2005 and 2006
Which band performed at Nelson Mandela's 90th birthday?
Queen + Paul Rodgers
On 20 May 2009 which Queen members performed We are the Champions on American Idol?
May and Taylor
Which member of Queen wrote a letter to fans in 2009 regarding touring for 2010?
May
What record label did May and Taylor leave in 2010?
EMI
Which artist presented the Global Icon Award to Queen in 2011?
Katy Perry
Which Queen members were appearing on American Idol in the late 2000s?
May and Taylor
When did Queen + Adam Lambert perform at the iHeartRadio Music Festival?
20 September 2013
Which guitarist inspired Queen?
Jimi Hendrix
Which Queen song inspired audience clapping?
Radio Ga Ga
What was the name of Brian May's signature guitar?
Red Special
Which King of Pop was influenced by Queen?
Michael Jackson
What song was voted the UK's favorite hit of all time in 2002?
Bohemian Rhapsody
How many number one singles did Queen release?
eighteen
How many Queen bootleg sites were discovered in 2001?
12,225
When was Queen's London production scheduled to end in 2006?
Saturday, 7 October
Queen's Live at Wembley Stadium DVD covered what year?
1986
Which music video game featured a plethora of Queen songs?
Guitar Hero
Which 1980 movie contained song contributions from Queen?
Flash Gordon
ho sang a version of Queen's Somebody to Love in 2004's Ella Enchanted?
Anne Hathaway
On what date in 2006 did May and Taylor of Queen appear on American Idol?
11 April
Which Queen song was featured in the autumn of 2009 on Glee
Somebody to Love
Who was originally chosen to play Freddie Mercury in the movie bearing his name?
Sacha Baron Cohen
Where can you trace back the origins of Presbyterianism back to?
British Isles
Where do most presbyterian churches trace their history back to?
Scotland
What other religion has history as being part of Presbyterian?
Christianity
What term described the method used to regulate common practice and or order?
Book of Order
What do Presbyterians put importance into?
education and lifelong learning
What is the Presbyterian government known as?
councils (known as courts) of elders
Who elects the ruling elders?
the congregation
Which group from the Presbyterian church in rank is above sessions?
presbyteries
Presbyterianism is based on this type of tradition, what is it?
confessional tradition
What traditions do some Presbyterian churches only adopt as their doctrinal standard?
Westminster Confession of Faith
To the church of Scotland, what is the sub standard doctrine?
The Westminster Confession
Which book has the Presbyterian church of America adopted?
Book of Confessions
The Presbyterian denominations from the British Isles were inspired by these principles in what document?
Directory of Public Worship
What did many Presbyterian churches introduce as a result of modifying prescriptions? 
hymnody, instrumental accompaniment, and ceremonial vestments
Among the emerging Protestant and Evangelical churches what are clergy moving away from?
black Geneva gown
Presbyterians had to distinguished between "Church" and "Meeting house" What was "Church" referring too?
the members
What did Presbyterian churches have in them?
communion table
What year did John Knox past away?
1572
In what year was the Church of Scotland recognized as a Presbyterian institution by the moncarh?
1688
In what year was the Presbyterianism church formed in England?
1592
When was the earliest Presbyterian churches founded by Scotland in England?
19th century
In what year did the Church of England and the Congregational Church in England  and Waled unite?
1972
What is the largest Protestant denomination in Northern Ireland?
Presbyterianism
When did Presbyterianism arrive in America?
1703
What is the name of the first three listed reformed Presbyterian Church's in the United States?
Presbyterian Church of North America (RPCNA), the Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church (ARP), the Reformed Presbyterian Church in the United States (RPCUS)
Around when did Presbyterian missionaries arrived in New Mexico?
1800s
What is the largest Presbyterian church denomination in Canada?
Presbyterian Church in Canada
What is the name of the largest Presbyterian church in Mexico?
National Presbyterian Church in Mexico (Iglesia Nacional Presbiteriana de México)
How many members are in the Presbyterian Church of Brazil?
1,011,300
Which  services to most African Presbyterian churches offer?
social services, emergency relief, and the operation of mission hospitals
The Reformed Presbyterian Church in Malawi has a range of members between what amounts?
17 000–20 000 members
Most of the churches in Korea carry the same name, what is it?
Presbyterian Church of Korea
Korean Presbyterian missionaries being sent over seas are second in numbers to only which other country?
United States
What is the name of the largest Presbyterian church in Taiwan?
The Presbyterian Church
What year was the largest Presbyterian denomination brought to Mizoram?
1894
How many members make up the Presbyterian church in Australia?
600,000
In what year did the Presbyterian Church of Australia , the Congregational Union of Australia , and all the Methodist Church of Australasia merge?
1977
What is the name of the largest denomination of Presbyterian church in Vanuatu?
The Presbyterian Church in Vanuatu
What is the most common Christian denomination in Thuringia? 
Lutheranism
Where does the name Thuringia come from?
the Germanic tribe Thuringii
How long did the Thuringian realm exist?
until 531 and later
When did Thuringia become a landgraviate? 
in 1130 AD
When did Roman Catholicism become suppressed?
as early as 1520
When was the German Mediatisation?
1795 to 1814
When did nazis gain power in Thuringia?
1930
Where are the Harz mountains located?
The far north
Which river in Thuringia is the most important?
the Saale
Why is Thurnigia's landscape shaped by human influence?
Due to many centuries of intensive settlement
Since when has environmental damage in Thuringia been reduced?
1990
Where was Thuringia in the Middle Ages?
the border between Germanic and Slavic territories
How many non-Germans lived in Thuringia in 2013?
41,000
What is the sex ratio gap in Thuringia?
115 to 120 men per 100 women
How many people migrated to Thuringia between 2008 and 2012?
+6,700 persons
How many municipalities are in Thuringia? 
850
What is something more important to Thuringia than most areas of Germany?
Agriculture and forestry
How far back does Thuringia's industrial sector go back?
the mid-19th-century industrialisation
Which towns in Thuringia are known as mining towns?
Schmalkalden, Suhl and Ilmenau
Where is the GDP of Thuringia?
below the national average
When did the unemployment rate of Thuringia peak?
20% in 2005
When were the first motorways built in Thuringia?
During the 1930s
What is Thuringia's traditional energy supply?
lignite
Which hospitals are being expanded?
bigger ones in centres like Jena and Erfurt
How long is Thuringian primary school?
four years
What is the biggest school in Thuringia?
The University of Jena
Where is the civil service college of Thuringia?
Gotha
What is the focus of Thuringia's research center, Jena?
life sciences and optics
When was Thuringia's first railway built?
the 1840s
What must a species do in order to be classified as a predator?
direct impact on the prey population
How many synergetic qualities are there in the predator-prey mechanism? 
Two factors
What do household animals prey upon? 
large and small prey
Animals that consume parts of their prey are considered to be
Grazing organisms
Species that rely on few or a single prey are called?
Parasites
This species relies on other species to provide a reproductive host for their offspring.
ichneumon wasps
Species that aren't considered specialized are called what? 
opportunistic
What is the the strata of predator prey interaction called?
trophic level
Dead animals that died as a result of natural causes or non-fatal injuries are called?
carrion
Intraguild species consumer other species within?
the same trophic level
What is the title of a predator that maintains balance with an ecosystem?
keystone species
What animal's food sources were greatly affected with the loss of wolves in Yellowstone National Park?
beavers
At most there are how many step of predator-prey interaction? 
maximum of four stages
Which adaptation helps both predators and prey?
camouflage
What is the phenomenon where an organism looks like another species called?
Mimicry
What makes predation successful?
gain of energy
What hunting style allows chimpanzees to prey upon colobus monkeys?
Social predation
Well-fed animals in captivity can become friends with prey animals due to what motivation?
mutual advantage or fear of reprisal from human masters
What are some predators of the electric eel?
(anacondas, caimans, egrets, jaguars, mountain lions, giant otters, humans, dogs, and cats
Is a species always the antagonist in a mobbing attack, or can it play roles on both sides?
species can be on both ends of a mobbing attack
What scientific term is used to describe  organisms that are brightly colored as a warning to predators?
Aposematism
What do predators depend on for survival?
prey
What physical disadvantages do humans have against other apex predators?
speed, bone density, weight, and physical strength
What two apex predators do not have a small population size?
humans and dogs
When a predator hunts too much of its prey, causing both populations to dissappear, the phenomenon is called what?
coextinction
How can natural predators benefit crops?
reducing damage to crops, and are one alternative to the use of chemical agents such as pesticides
Captain America, Thor and Ultron all inhabit what fictional milieu?
Marvel Universe
Who originally founded Marvel Comics?
Martin Goodman
What was the cover date on Marvel Comics #1?
Oct. 1939
What cartoon humorist did some high profile stories for Marvel in the early years?
Basil Wolverton
Marvel Comics was part of many entities having what relationship with Timely?
shell companies
Which writer and artist was behind the Sub-Mariner?
Bill Everett
Marvel's first team of superheroes was known by what alliterative name?
The Fantastic Four
Who joined with Stan Lee in creating the Fantastic Four?
Jack Kirby
What magazine featured two Marvel Characters in a college campus heroes feature?
Esquire
What actual US cities have fictional equivalents in Marvel's comic milieu?
New York, Los Angeles and Chicago
How many comics did Marvel sell during 1968?
50 million
What government agency asked Marvel to do a series of stories to publicize an issue?
United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare
What situation allowed Marvel to expand into more adult-themed genre stories?
the updating of the Comics Code
What new venture did Marvel's founder begin after leaving the company in the 1970s?
Seaboard Periodicals
What was Marvel's self-hosted comic book convention called?
Marvelcon
Who took over as head of Marvel in 1978?
Jim Shooter
What 1990s comic line featured futuristic, sci-fi stories?
2099 line
What studio helped to relaunch and revamp classic marvel teams The Fantastic Four and the Avengers?
Image Comics
What channel did Marvel buy to self-distribute its own comics in the 1990s?
Heroes World Distribution
What was the business state of Marvel by 2000?
bankruptcy
What entertainment company purchased Marvel at the end of the 2000s?
The Walt Disney Company
When did the Marvel Adventures line cease publishing?
March 2012
What TV network shares a parent with Marvel?
ABC
What publisher did Marvel first license its characters to for novelization?
Bantam Books
What Disney theme park will become the first to feature Marvel-specific attractions?
Hong Kong Disneyland
The United Kingdom ruled what empire?
British
In which centuries was the Age of Discovery?
15th and 16th centuries
When did the Thirteen Colonies become independent from Britain?
1783
Which countries challenged Britain's economic lead by the start of the 20th century?
Germany and the United States
When was John Cabot's voyage commissioned?
1496
What had turned England and Catholic Spain into implacable enemies?
the Protestant Reformation
When did Humphrey Gilbert first set sail for the West Indies?
1578
What was James I's name/title before taking the English throne?
James VI, King of Scots
When did England first establish a colony in Guiana?
1604
When was England's first permanent settlement in the Americas founded?
1607
Which company had monopoly of the trade to supply slaves to the British colonies of the Caribbean?
Royal African Company
When was the Company of Scotland granted a charter?
1695
When was the British East India Company chartered?
1600
Which country became Britain's main rival in the 18th century?
France
King Philip renounced his right to the throne after what treaty?
Treaty of Utrecht
What was the French equivalent of the English East India Company?
Compagnie française des Indes orientales
When was the Seven Years' War?
1756–1763
British relations with which area became strained in the 1760s-1770s?
the Thirteen Colonies
What book by Adam Smith was published in 1776?
Wealth of Nations
How many British loyalists moved from the US to Canada?
between 40,000 and 100,000
How many convicts per year had Britain been sending to the American colonies?
one thousand
When was New Zealand discovered by the Dutch?
1642
The British Royal Navy blockaded which ports?
French
When was the Slave Trade Act enacted?
1807
How many square miles of territory were added to the British Empire between 1815 and 1914?
10,000,000
What illegal trade was the British East India Company involved in?
opium
When did Britain pass the Regulating Act?
1773
Britain competed with which country to fill the Asian power vacuum in the 19th century?
Russian
When did Russia invade the Turkish Balkans?
1853
When was the southern tip of Africa colonized?
1652
When did the Suez Canal open?
1869
Where did France try to invade in 1898?
Fashoda
When was it proposed to unify Upper and Lower Canada?
1839
Which British Prime Minister first supported home rule of Ireland?
William Gladstone
Which country seemed like Britain's most likely threat in the early 20th century?
Germany
When did the First World War begin?
1914
When was the Gallipoli Campaign?
1915
When was the Treaty of Versailles signed?
1919
When did Britain sign the Washington Naval Treaty?
1922
When did Ireland establish their own assembly?
1919
When was the Government of India Act passed?
1919
When did Egypt regain formal independence from Britain?
1922
When was the right of Dominions to determine their own foreign policy recognized?
1923
When was France occupied by Germany?
1940
Which country attacked British Malaya in 1941?
Japan
How much money did the US loan to Britain after WW2?
$US 4.33 billion
Who led the British government elected in 1945?
Clement Attlee
What race was the majority in Palestine in the 1940s?
Arab
When did the Malayan Emergency begin?
1948
What party regained power in Britain in 1951?
Conservative Party
When was the Suez Canal nationalized?
July 1956
Where did 'Britain's Waterloo' occur?
Suez
When did Britain withdraw from Aden?
1967
What was the last British colony remaining in Africa?
Southern Rhodesia
Which British territory received independence in 1961?
Jamaica
When was Canada given full control of its constitution?
1982
Who was the British Prime Minister in 1982?
Margaret Thatcher
How many overseas territories does Britain still have?
14
How many Commonwealth nations are there?
53
In which countries did the British Isles provide most of the founding settlers?
the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand
What is botany?
science of plant life
What science led to botany?
herbalism
What is are the main themes of present-day botany?
molecular genetics and epigenetics
What is the name of an ancient Greek work impacting botany?
De Materia Medica
What was the first botanical garden at an Italian university?
Padua
Who wrote Historia Plantarum in 1544?
Physician Valerius Cordus
What is the meaning of dichotomous keys?
choices between pairs
What led scientists to believe that plants should be classified according to something other than just sexual system?
Increasing knowledge of plant anatomy
What was the first modern text book?
Grundzüge der Wissenschaftlichen Botanik
What did Warming believe that plants can do?
form communities
What is transpiration?
the transport of water within plant tissues
What enables scientists to better study plants now?
modern techniques of organic chemical analysis
What kind of relationships does systematics aim to discover?
phylogenetic
Why are plants important to human life?
oxygen and food
What is the scientific name for seed plants?
gymnosperms
What is the study of ancient, fossilized plants?
Paleobotanists
Why do food chains start with plants?
energy from the sun and nutrients from the soil
what parts of algae are unique to them?
chloroplasts
What is the function of ATP and NADPH molecules?
store and transport energy
What polymer is used to strengthen cell walls?
lignin
What is the study of the chemicals that plants produce?
Phytochemistry
How is charcoal made?
pyrolysis of wood
What are plant habitats?
environments where they complete their life
On what do plants depend in their environment?
edaphic (soil) and climatic factors
How can historical changes in the environment be detected?
plant phenology
Does inheritance work differently in plants?
same fundamental principles of genetics
Are plants able to mate across species?
hybrids are often possible
Why do plants develop bulbs?
opportunities for fertilisation of flowers by animals are rare
What can cause the doubling of chromosome pairs?
errors in cytokinesis
What was the first plant to have its genome sequenced?
Thale cress, Arabidopsis thaliana
Why is a plant chosen for the study of its cells?
small genomes
How can a bacteria in the soil affect a plant?
can attach to plant cells
What does epigenetics study?
changes in gene function
What process causes changes in plant cells?
Epigenetic changes
Does cell division end in plants?
remaining totipotent
Are all algae different from land plants?
some more closely related
What makes mosses different from other land plants?
lack the vascular tissues
What does the plant use for internal processes?
Chemicals obtained from the air, soil and water
How is water transported into plants?
from roots
When was the theory of plant hormones introduced?
late 19th century
What are cytokinins responsible for in plants?
control of cell division
What is the study of the inside of plants?
Plant anatomy
What makes up the bodies of vascular plants?
stems bearing green photosynthesising leaves
Do the roots and shoots need each other?
interdependent
What are the stems used for in cacti?
store water
How did Linnaeus group organisms?
shared physical characteristics
What is the main grouping of a plant know as?
Kingdom
What does the phylogeny of a group represent?
relationships and heredity
Why might two plants be similar but not actually be in the same group?
convergent evolution
What is used now to group plants?
DNA sequences
What was the first plant grouping based on DNA sequencing?
flowering plants
What is Madonna's real name?
Madonna Louise Ciccone
Where was Madonna born?
Bay City, Michigan
Name a film role that Madonna acted in.
Desperately Seeking Susan
How many records did Madonna sell worldwide?
more than 300 million
Madonna was born to which religion?
Catholic
Which name did Madonna adopted as her confirmation name?
Veronica
Who did Madonna turn to for comfort during her mother's illness?
paternal grandmother
In 1966, who did Tony married?
Joan Gustafson
When did Madonna drop out of college?
1978
Which year was Patrick Hernandez's world tour held?
1979
What was Madonna's debut single called?
Everybody
Who was the boyfriend that Madonna moved in with?
John "Jellybean" Benitez
Who did Madonna's look and style of dressing influence?
young girls and women
Madonna was criticized for her performance of which song in the VMA?
"Like a Virgin"
When did Madonna enter mainstream films?
February 1985
When was Madonna's first concert tour in North America?
Beginning in April 1985
When was Madonna's third album released?
June 1986
When did Madonna sign an endorsement deal with Pepsi?
January 1989
In the film Dick Tracy, who did Madonna starred as?
Breathless Mahoney
What is Madonna's compilation album called?
The Immaculate Collection
Who did Madonna play in the role A League Of Their Own?
Mae Mordabito
When was The Girlie Show World Tour?
September 1993
Which biographer described her song "I'll Remember" as trying to clean up Madonna's image?
J. Randy Taraborrelli
In the film Evita, who did Madonna play?
Eva Perón
Who from Times magazine gave an excellent critique of the film Evita?
Zach Conner
What is the name of Madonna's seventh album?
Ray of Light
How many Emmy awards did Ray of Light won?
four
Which edition of the Guinness Book of World Record states that no female artist sold more records than Madonna?
1998
What was the film that Madonna starred in 2000?
The Next Best Thing
Who is Madonna's second husband?
Guy Ritchie
Which film did Madonna starred in that was directed by Ritchie?
Swept Away
What is the name of the exhibition installation that Madonna teamed up with fashion photographer Chris Klein called?
X-STaTIC Pro=CeSS
Who did Madonna kiss at the MTV Video Music Awards?
Spears and Aguilera
Madonna and Maverick sued which company for poor bookkeeping and mismanagement of resources?
Warner Music Group
When was the Re-Invention World Tour kick off?
mid-2004
What was the name of Madonna's tenth studio album?
Confessions on a Dance Floor
When did the Confessions Tour start?
May 2006
What was the charity that Madonna was involved in when in Malawi?
Raising Malawi initiative
What song did Madonna release for the Live Earth series of concerts?
Hey You
What was the name of Madonna's eleventh album?
Hard Candy
Which single was released as the album's lead single?
4 Minutes
What is the title of the book by Madonna's brother?
Life with My Sister Madonna
When was Mercy adopted?
June 2009
When did Madonna perform at the Hope for Haiti Now?
January 2010
What is the name of the clothing line Madonna released with her daughter?
Material Girl
Which year did Madonna performed at the Super Bowl?
2012
Where did the MDNA Tour start?
Tel Aviv, Israel
By 2013, how many did Madonna's Raising Malawi organization built?
ten schools
What was the name of the 17 minute film called?
secretprojectrevolution
What award ceremony did Madonna appeared in?
56th Annual Grammy Awards
When did Madonna's album demo leaked online?
December 2014
Whose music had been the subject of a lot of scrutiny?
Madonna's
Who writes and creates most of her own music?
Madonna
Which genre did Madonna started out in?
rock music
Which 2 album show Madonna's artistic statement?
True Blue (1986) and Like a Prayer (1989)
What type of music did Madonna experimented with in Music?
folk and acoustic
Madonna has which vocal range?
mezzo-soprano
Which instruments can Madonna play?
drum and guitar
According to who was the defining moment of Madonna's childhood with her mother's death?
Taraborrelli,
Who felt deep sadness as the death of their mother fades away?
Madonna and her sisters
Which song made a strong impression on Madonna?
These Boots Are Made for Walkin
What is Madonna's religious background?
Italian-Catholic
Name one actor that Madonna was inspired by?
Marilyn Monroe
Whose art influence Madonna?
Frida Kahlo
Which religion was Madonna dedicated to?
Kabbalah
Who are the Madonna Companion Biographers?
Allen Metz and Carol Benson
What influence did Madonna music video reflects?
American and Hispanic mixed street style
Who noted that Madonna was reversing the gender role?
Academics
Who had new standards of showmanship?
Madonna and Janet Jackson
What did Madonna use in her concerts?
hands-free radio-frequency headset microphones
Who is the most influential recording artist of all time?
Madonna
Who changed the dynamics of the singers back to mostly female?
Madonna
Madonna used what to benefit her career?
sexual imagery
Who is an acclaim role model business woman?
Madonna
Madonna sold how many albums worldwide?
300 million records
Who holds the record for the most number 1 hits?
Madonna
What city is the capital of England?
London
Where does London rank in the world in terms of Metropolitan GDP?
fifth-or sixth-largest
How many different languages are spoken in London?
300
What is one of London's World Heritage Sites?
Westminster Abbey
Early consensus was that London's name originated in what language?
Celtic
What river flows into the River Thames?
the River Effra
Who was the leader of the Iceni tribe?
Queen Boudica
What area continued to exist after Londinium was abandoned following the end of Roman rule?
St Martin-in-the-Fields
According to the Anglo-Saxon chronicle, who reestablished London in 886 AD?
Alfred the Great
Who rebuilt Westminster Abbey?
King Edward the Confessor
In what area of London was the Tower of London built?
southeastern corner
What was the administration which governed the City of London called?
the Corporation of London
In what era did the Protestant Reformation occur?
the Tudor period
What was the defensive wall that encircled London in 1642 called?
the Lines of Communication
What was King George II's royal residence beginning in 1762?
Buckingham House
What was the primary cause of the cholera outbreak in 19th century London?
London's overcrowded conditions
What was the root cause of the Brixton riot in 1981?
Racial inequality
What was London's estimated population in the 1980s?
around 6.8 million
What were the Millennium Dome, the London Eye, and the Millennium Bridge created to honor?
the start of the 21st century
London's government administration is comprised of how many tiers?
two
What area of the River Thames does the Port of London Authority's jurisdiction cover?
Teddington Lock to the sea
What is the Prime Minister of the UK's official residence?
10 Downing Street
Which police force in London does not typically engage in police activity with the general public?
the Ministry of Defence Police
What statutory policy minimizes outward expansion of urban London?
the Metropolitan Green Belt
What title regarding London has never been made official in law or by decree?
London's status as the capital of England
In the past, how much wider was the River Thames than it is today?
five times
How far from the center of London is London Heathrow Airport?
15 miles west
What is England's oldest standing palace from the Tudor period?
Hampton Court Palace
Where in London are the Albert Memorial and Royal Albert Hall located?
in Kensington
What are the financial districts of London known as?
the City of London and Canary Wharf
How many different species of plant life are known to grow in London?
2000
What type of animal belonging to Queen Elizabeth II was killed by an intruding fox on the Buckingham Palace grounds?
pink flamingos
Epping Forest is home for how many species of bats?
Ten
What rare breed of deer is protected at the Deer Sanctuary at Theydon Bois?
melanistic, black fallow deer
London is second only to what city in terms of its foreign population?
New York City
With which two other cities is London named one of the most expensive in the world?
Tokyo and Moscow
What is the ratio of black and Asian schoolchildren to white schoolchildren?
about six to four
What percentage of the Greater London population was said to be foreign-born according to the 2011 census?
36.7 per cent
What is the name of the largest Hindu temple in Europe?
Neasden Temple
Which Jewish synagogue boasts the largest membership in Europe?
Stanmore and Canons Park Synagogue
What is the best-known London accent known as?
Cockney
What is the name of the world-famous insurance market based in London?
Lloyd's of London
What is the second largest port in the UK?
The Port of London
According to 2015 data, how many how many visitors gave London its ranking as the number one visited city in the world?
65 million
Which elected official is financially responsible for public transportation in London, except for long-distance railways?
the Mayor of London
How many airports are affiliated with London and incorporate the word London in their names?
Eight
What is the smallest airport in the London area?
London City Airport
What is Europe's busiest rail station in terms of train activity?
Clapham Junction
In the 20th century the Night Ferry was a boat train that provided connections between London and which cities?
Paris and Brussels
How much revenue is generated yearly by London's public bus service?
£850 million
What is the name of London' bike-for-hire operation?
Santander Cycles
What type of roadway is widely recognizable in the center of London?
The inner ring road
What is the daily cost for most drivers to operate their cars within a given zone in the center of London?
£10
What professional services network named London the world's capital of higher education?
PricewaterhouseCoopers
In terms of teaching and research, what is the world's foremost institute of social science?
London School of Economics
What school within the University of London would a student seeking a degree in the veterinary medicine likely attend?
the Royal Veterinary College
What is the student population of University of Westminster?
34,000
How many major medical schools does London boast?
five
City University London is related to what specialized business school?
Cass Business School
Who overseas the public primary and secondary school systems in London?
the London boroughs
What is the entertainment center of London known as?
the West End
What street in Islington boasts more bars and restaurants than any other street in Britain?
Upper Street
The Lord Mayor's Show occurs annually in what month?
November
Who witnessed first-hand and wrote about the Great Fire of 1666?
Samuel Pepys
What famous Elizabethan playwright spent much of his life in London?
William Shakespeare
What major film production company calls London home?
Working Title Films
When was the British Museum in Bloomsbury founded?
1753
What is the National Portrait Gallery known for housing?
depictions of figures from British history
What musical instrument is situated at Royal Albert Hall?
The UK's largest pipe organ
What famous chain of music-themed restaurants opened its first establishment in London?
Hard Rock Cafe
London was a major factor in the rise of what musical genre?
punk
How many royal parks are located in the center of London?
three
What famous London gardens were named as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 2003?
Kew Gardens
What river is a tributary of the River Thames?
the River Wandle
What is London's most popular athletic sport?
football
What is the name of the national rugby union stadium located in South-West London?
Twickenham Stadium
London's residential property value is equivalent to what nation's GDP?
Brazil
What is the foundation of the United States federal government?
United States Constitution
What comes before state and territorial laws in the 50 U.S states?
Federal law and treaties
In order for a unconstitutional statue to disappear, it has to be deleted by?  
a subsequent statute
The rule of liability for defective products originated from what law?
law of warranty
What law covers wrongs which humans can inflict upon each other?
Tort law
A lot of American common law diverged from where?
English common law
Reception statues are generally the same as what law?
the common law of England
early on American courts cited what cases?
contemporary English
What does federal law come from?
the Constitution
What areas of the Constitution deal with issuses such as aviation, railroads, and trademarks?
Commerce and Spending Clauses
Who signs a bill into a law?
the President
What does congress often grant to give rulemaking authority to federal agencies?
statutes
What is used to determine whether federal judicial power extends to formulating binding precedent?
stare decisis
Who has noted that binding precedent did not exist when the Constitution was written?
federal judge Alex Kozinski
How did the federal agencies differ from their English counter-parts?
no plenary reception statute at the federal level that continued the common law
When did binding precedent become possible in the United States?
nineteenth century
What states that there is no general federal common law?
the doctrine of Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins
What is a major implication of the Erie doctrine?
federal courts cannot dictate the content of state law when there is no federal issue
What does each state posess?
state constitutions, state governments, and state courts
Where are cases usually argued?
state courts
What makes up the law of criminal procedure?
federal constitutional case law interwoven with the federal and state statutes
What is over all judicial proceedings involving private party lawsuits?
The law of civil procedure
Which states have not adopted FRCP?
New York, Illinois, and California are the most significant
What is extensive pretrial discovery a part of?
American civil procedure
What is criminal law?
prosecution by the state of wrongful acts
What two levels of crime are there?
felonies and misdemeanors
What is contract law?
obligations established by agreement (express or implied) between private parties
How much a  Myanmar's boundaries are encompassed by beachfront lands?
(1,200 miles) forms an uninterrupted coastline
What were the names of some of the early cultures located in Myanmar?
Tibeto-Burman-speaking Pyu city-states in Upper Burma and the Mon kingdoms in Lower Burma
What portion of the government was eventually separated from government participation? 
the military junta
Where did the name Burma originate from ?
names are derived from the name of the majority Burmese Bamar ethnic group
By which name is the country called by most English speaking countries?
Burma continues to be used in English by the governments of many countries, such as Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom
What extinct species of hominid that lived throughout most of the Pleistocene geological period is believed to have dwelled in Myanmar?
Homo erectus
By what name is the era in the 3rd millennium around 1500 BC known?
The Bronze Age
What period was the first known city states established in Myanmar?
Around the second century BC
What is the name of the kingdom that became dominant along the coastline of Myanmar? 
Kingdom of Mrauk U
Was there more than one racial class in the organized societies of the states of Myanmar?
states were all multi-ethnic polities
Before attempting to obtain political unification, what title did Taungoo,hold ? 
a former vassal state of Ava.
How were the Portuguese expelled from Myanmar?
The dynasty regrouped and defeated the Portuguese
What was the event called that caused  Ayutthaya  to reclaim lost territories ?
the Chinese threat
What language eventually came to power in the Irrawaddy valley ?
Burmese language
have the Burmese people ever shown any reservations about the ruling government bodies?
Burmese resentment was strong and was vented in violent riots that paralysed Yangon (Rangoon) on occasion all the way until the 1930s.
Was Burma effected by the world wars?
Burma was devastated during World War II
Who negotiated the agreement that Burma would be free from forgien rule ?
Aung San
What are the 1988 demonstrations in Burma called?
8888 Uprising
What was the cause of the insurrection in the summer of 2007 ?
an increase in the price of diesel and petrol
What natural disaster caused detrimental effects to the Irrawaddy section of Burma in May of 2008 ?  
Cyclone Nargis
In 2012 what was the the disturbance with the government running smoothly ? Burma? 
the number of ongoing conflicts in Myanmar
What country was Burma involved with in 2015
Armed conflict between ethnic Chinese rebels and the Myanmar Armed Forces
Where the elections of 2010 conducted fairly in Burma?
allegations of polling station irregularities were raised
Is Burma now a democratic nation?
Opinions differ whether the transition to liberal democracy is underway
In what direction is the government of Burma ultimately attempting to go?
reforms to direct the country towards liberal democracy
Have the changes in Burmese law been of benefit to the country in international views ? 
approval of Myanmar's bid for the position of ASEAN chair in 2014; the visit by United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
Who raised concerns of fraud in the elections held in the Burma 2012 elections ?
the Freedom House organisation raised concerns
What countries surround the border that is opposite the southwest border of Burma?
Burma is bordered in the northwest by the Chittagong Division of Bangladesh and the Mizoram
Where does the majority of the Burmese country fall on the globe ?
Much of the country lies between the Tropic of Cancer and the Equator
What industry is supported by animal labor in Burma ?
the lumber industry
What was the name of the winning unit in the 2010 elections in Burma ?
The elections of 2010 resulted in a victory for the military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party
How have international relations developed due to the recent political changes in Burma ? 
relations have thawed since the reforms following the 2010 elections.
How are international businesses discouraged from operating in Burma?
Sanctions imposed by the United States and European countries against the former military government, coupled with boycotts
How do Asian countries feel about the European attitude towards Burma ?
Asian corporations have generally remained willing to continue investing in the country and to initiate new investments
Why did India stop supporting the military in Myanmar in 2008 ?
over the issue of human rights abuses by the ruling junta
Who is the first official Burmese delegate to visit the white house following the 2010 elections in Burma ?
Thein Sein became the first Myanmar president to visit the White House in 47 years
What country has provided Burma with the most military aid ?
Myanmar has received extensive military aid from China
What is the name of the military in Burma ?
Tatmadaw
What did the United adopt in reference to Burma annually until 2005 ?
Until 2005, the United Nations General Assembly annually adopted a detailed resolution about the situation in Myanmar by consensus.
What is the general view of Burma ?
military regime in Myanmar is one of the world's most repressive and abusive regimes
What are the names of some of the  human right organizations that have been involved in Burmese relations. 
Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International and the American Association for the Advancement of Science
How are children used in the conflicts in Burma?
Child soldiers have and continue to play a major part in the Burmese Army as well as Burmese rebel movements.
What section of the Burmese population is routinely discriminated against ?
The Rohingya people
What is believed to be one of the potential religious instigators for the stiff in Burma against a certain race ?
suggested that the Rohingya conflict may be driven by an Islamist political agenda to impose religious laws
Has the violence in Burma decreased over the years as the country has tried made democratic strides ?
Since the democratic transition began in 2011, there has been continuous violence as 280 people have been killed and 140,000 forced to flee
What was believed to be one of the Burma reasons for the unrest in 2012 ?
many commentators citing the killing of ten Burmese Muslims by ethnic Rakhine
What have the military and law enforcement been denounced for in the matter of  summer of 2012 ?
The Burmese army and police have been accused of targeting Rohingya Muslims through mass arrests and arbitrary violence
Have there been any changes to restrictions placed on the communications networks in Burma ?
Restrictions on media censorship were significantly eased in August 2012
What is the name of the individuals who gave relevant information on the recent events in Burma ?
the Crisis Group
What did the government bring together ?
National Human Rights Commission
Has the government of Myanmar made life any easier for it's inhabitants ?
has also relaxed reporting laws, but these remain highly restrictive.
What official was the first to visit the grounds of Great Britain from Burma?
Thein Sein
In terms of finance, when being ruled by the English, where did Burma stand ?
Under British administration, Myanmar was the second-wealthiest country in South-East Asia.
How did world war two affect Burmese business and economy ?
British destroyed the major government buildings, oil wells and mines for tungsten, tin, lead and silver to keep them from the Japanese.
What is the major farming production crop in Burma? 
rice
What is the difficulty with expanding the gem business in Burma ?
US and European jewellery companies, including Bulgari, Tiffany, and Cartier, refuse to import these stones based
Name two of the metropolitan areas that are enjoyed most frequently by tourist in Myanmar  ?
Yangon and Mandalay
How are most visitors ushered into the city of Myanmar ?
by air
Can one travel by plane from any country in Myanmar ?
Flights are available from most countries
What occurred in the winter of 2014 of significance for Myanmar ?
December 2014, Myanmar signed an agreement to set up its first stock exchange
How many are estimated people live in Burma officially?
provisional results of the 2014 Myanmar Census show that the total population is 51,419,420
What is the largest percentage of  the Burmese populace ?
Bamar form an estimated 68% of the population
What percentage of people in Burma are related by linguistically lines to the Khmer. 
2% of the population, are ethno-linguistically related to the Khmer
What are the four categories for the most prolific dialects used in Burma ?
Sino-Tibetan, Tai–Kadai, Austro-Asiatic, and Indo-European.
What is the matriarchal brogue of Burma that became the countries' standard vernacular ?
Burmese
Does Burma have more than one religion ?
Many religions are practised in Myanmar
What part of the populace does not  identify with conformists religious  majority?
7% of the population identifies as Christian; 4% as Muslim; 1% follows traditional animistic beliefs; and 2% follow other religions
Who runs the school system in Myanmar ?
the Ministry of Education
What are the pervasive culture that is sanctioned in Burma ?
the majority culture is primarily Buddhist and Bamar.
Customarily where is the expected place in the lives of the people for the home of monks in Burma ?
In a traditional village, the monastery is the centre of cultural life.
What evidence of previous rule is evident in the buildings in Burma ?
Colonial architectural influences are most evident in major cities
What is the time-honored dish served for the morning meal in Burma ?
Mohinga is the traditional breakfast dish
What was the first motion picture about someone's life filmed in Myanmar ?
Myanmar's first film was a documentary of the funeral of Tun Shein
Which group originated as a national and religious group in the Middle East during the second millennium BCE, in the part of the Levant known as the Land of Israel?
Jews
What percentage of Jews reside in Israel?
43%
What is the origin of the word Yiddish?
Jude
Name one person that Jewish ancestry traced back to?
Abraham
Which culture was largely Canaanite in nature?
Israelite
What group was divided into Twelve Tribes?
Israelites
How many times did Israelites have political independence in ancient history? 
twice
Genetic studies show that Jews bear their strongest resemblance to the peoples of where?
Fertile Crescent
What book is considered a religious interpretation of the traditions and early national history of the Jews?
The Hebrew Bible
In modern secular usage Jews include how many groups?
three
What have historical definitions of Jewish identity been based on?
halakhic definitions of matrilineal descent, and halakhic conversions
Who believed the status of the offspring of mixed marriages was determined patrilineally in the Bible?
Shaye J. D. Cohen
Where did Jews migrate to after the Babylonian conquest?
Babylonia
What is a tax imposed on Jews in 70 CE?
The Fiscus Judaicus
What resulted in effective and long-term isolation of Jewish communities?
An array of Jewish communities was established by Jewish settlers in various places around the Old World, often at great distances from one another
Name one major group that Jews are often identified as belonging to.
Ashkenazim
In modern usage, why is Mizrahim sometimes termed Sephardi?
due to similar styles of liturgy
What group of Jews represent the bulk of modern Jewry?
Ashkenazi Jews
What is the liturgical language of Judaism?
Hebrew
What is the Judaeo-German language developed by Ashkenazi Jews who migrated to Central Europe?
Yiddish
What language is spoken by more Jews in history than any other language?
Yiddish
Ashkenazi Jews share more common paternal lineages with what group?
Jewish and Middle Eastern groups
What looks at the entire DNA mixture?
autosomal DNA
What are Sephardic Bnei Anusim?
descendants of the "anusim" forced converts to Catholicism
What years did the Jewish population rise from 800,000 to two million?
1948 and 1958
More than half of the Jews live where?
Diaspora
Where is Western Europe's largest Jewish community?
France
Prior to 1948, how many Jews were living in lands which now make up the Arab world (excluding Israel)?
800,000
When did the advent of the Jewish Enlightenment occur?
18th century
What is the rate of interreligious marriage in the United States?
just under 50%
When did the Papal States exist?
until 1870
What were Jews and Christians living in Muslim lands known as?
dhimmis
What were walled quarters known as?
mellahs
What was one method used to entirely eliminate Jewish populations?
expulsion
How many Jews were slaughtered in the Holocaust?
approximately 6 million
What is one method used to prevent intermarriage?
pursuing secular Jews in order to give them a stronger Jewish identity
What is the most frequent use of cotton?
fabric
Where in Southeast Asia has early use of cotton been discovered?
Mehrgarh, Pakistan
Use of cotton in Iran dates back to what period?
Achaemenid era
When did cotton begin to be commercially grown in Egypt?
1820's,
In the late medieval period in Europe as what was cotton viewed?
imported fiber
How did British rule effect Indian cotton processing?
declined
What event produced an expansion of the British cotton industry?
Industrial Revolution
What invention improved the cotton industry in both America and Britain?
cotton gin
What was the difference that made American cotton preferred over Indian cotton?
longer, stronger fibers
What action of the Union damaged the southern cotton exports?
Union blockade
What was the procedure called which involved workers to work for a share of the profits? 
sharecropping
What is the optimum amount of rainfall for cotton growth?
600 to 1,200 mm
To stop reliance on what was GM cotton developed?
pesticides
In what year did a research study find that the use of Bt toxin plants failed to be effective after 7 years?
2006
How much area was planted in India in GM cotton in 2011?
10.6 million hectares
What are organic plants understood to be?
not genetically modified
What insect is the most destructive pest in cotton growing in the US?
boll weevil
How is most cotton harvested?
mechanically
What was the first manufactured fiber?
rayon
What prompted a help program produced by cotton producers in the 1960s?
decline in market share
For what is cotton used to make?
textile products
For what is cottonseed used after it is separate from the fibers?
cottonseed oil
What part of the cotton plant is used for paper manufacture?
Cotton linters
What is a fine, tightly twisted type of cotton fabric?
Cotton lisle
In 2009 what were the largest producers of cotton?
China and India
How many subsidized cotton growers are in the US?
25,000
What was Brazil's argument against the US cotton industry?
heavily subsidized
What type of labor have some countries come under fire for employing?
child
What is the final sequencing goal of sequencing diploid cotton genomes first ?
tetraploid cotton
What companies finished much of the sequencing of the D genome?
Monsanto and Illumina
What involves encoding information using fewer bits than the original representation?
data compression
What helps reduce resource usage?
Compression
What usually exploits statistical redundancy?
Lossless data compression algorithms
What compression methods are among the most popular?
Lempel–Ziv (LZ)
What can be paired with an algorithm called arithmetic coding?
statistical estimates
What type of data compression is the converse of lossless date data compression?
Lossy
What is used for CD ripping?
audio compression
What is Machine learning closely related to?
compression
What can be looked at as a special case of data differencing? 
Data compression
What has the potential to reduce the transmission bandwidth and storage requirements of audio data?
Audio data compression
What produces a representation of digital data that decompresses?
Lossless audio compression
What compression is used in a lot of applications?
Lossy
What may be used to weight the importance of components?
Equal-loudness contours
What is the coding called that is used with speech?
linear predictive coding
What results from methods used to encode and decode data?
Latency
What refers to the number of samples that must be analysed before a block of audio is processed?
latency
What varies with time?
voltage
What was published in the IEEE Journal in 1988?
literature compendium
Who developed the first commercial broadcast automation audio compression system?
Oscar Bonello
What all mostly use lossy compression?
video compression algorithms
What compression typically operate on square-shaped groups of pixels?
video
What may be represented as a series of still image frames?
Video data
What still remains much shorter than intraframe compression?
longer command
What copies data from one frame to another?
interframe compression
What do all commonly used video compression methods use?
discrete cosine transform
What are the latest generation of lossless algorithms? 
Genetics
Which newspaper overtook The Sun as largest Saturday UK newspaper?
Daily Mail
Which newspaper did the The Sun on Sunday take the place of?
News of the World
Who ordered research on the Herald?
Cecil King from Mark Abrams of Sussex University
What did the prospective owner of the paper promise?
fewer redundancies
What position did Larry Lamb take with the Sun?
editor
What did Lamb employ as an important theme from the beginning of the paper?
Sex
What were the Sun's political leanings early on under Murdoch?
nominally Labour
Who temporarily replaced Larry Lamb?
Bernard Shrimsley
What newspaper was founded by Express Newspaper?
The Daily Star
What did The Sun state that had it taken sponsorship of?
a British missile
What was the Sun's headline on 4 May 1982?
"GOTCHA"
Which ship was the target of Argentinian aggression?
HMS Sheffield
Who did The Sun say was not fit to be Prime Minister in 1983?
Michael Foot
Who did The Sun support in the 1984-85 Miners' strike?
the police and the Thatcher government
How did Murdoch describe critics of his newspaper?
"snobs" who want to "impose their tastes on everyone else"
Who wrote Max Clifford: Read All About It?
Clifford and Angela Levin
How many libel writs did The Sun get for their coverage of Elton John?
17
What did Piers Morgan offer opinions about in a late 1980s column?
the sexuality of male pop stars
What was the headline for a page 2 Sun story on 17 November 1989?
"STRAIGHT SEX CANNOT GIVE YOU AIDS – OFFICIAL."
What did critics believe about The Sun and Lord Kilbracken's ideas on AIDS?
The Sun and Lord Kilbracken cherry-picked the results from one specific study while ignoring other data reports on HIV infection and not just AIDS infection
What did the paper report that some fans did?
picked the pockets of crushed victims
Where did The sun lose a large portion of its daily sales as a result of the front page?
Liverpool
Which footballer was verbally attacked in Liverpool? 
Wayne Rooney
When did Margaret Thatcher leave office?
November 1990
What types of policies did The Sun support?
Thatcherite policies
Who did The Sun declare political endorsement of in 1997?
Labour party
What did Blair agree to in order to get the support of Rupert Murdoch?
not to join the European Exchange Rate Mechanism
What allegation did the government level against The Sun in 2003?
racism
Who did The Sun endorse in the 2005 general election?
Blair and Labour
What was the subject of the front page on 22 September 2003?
mental health
Which two nations has The Sun been very antagonistic towards?
French and Germans
What type of forum was the subject of a January 2009 front page story in The Sun?
a British Muslim internet forum
What was the claimed target of a terrorist attack according to a late 2010 Sun front page story?
Granada Television in Manchester
When was The Sun printed on the Wapping presses for the last time?
January 2008
Who followed Tony Blair as Prime Minister?
Gordon Brown
Who showed up on the editorial floor of the Independent?
James Murdoch and Rebekah Wade
Who did The Sun advocate for the 2010 election?
David Cameron
Why were former Sun staff members put in police custody in early 2012?
as part of a probe in which journalists paid police officers for information
Who were the main leaders of the ruling party?
David Cameron, Nick Clegg and Ed Miliband
Who was the subject of an early June 2013 front page story?
Tulisa Contostavlos
How did the case against Tulisa fare?
collapsed
What were Sun staff accused of in a 2014 trial?
conspiring to commit misconduct in a public office
Who was appointed presiding judge over the retrial in 2015?
Charles Wide
Who was found guilty in 2015?
Anthony France
Who was the first journalist convicted as a result of Operation Elveden since it had been revised?
France
What did The Irish Sun stop doing in 2013?
featuring topless models on Page 3
Which Sun columnist made controversial remarks about migrants to Britain in April 2015?
Katie Hopkins
On Twitter what famous person condemned Hopkins' remarks?
Russell Brand
What is an often used term for British withdrawal from the European Union?
Brexit
When does Fastelavn occur?
Shrove Tuesday
What does vastenavond mean?
the days before fasting
Whose effigy was placed on a ship on wheels?
Nerthus or Freyr
What's the name of the Christian festive season that occurs before the season of Lent?
Carnival
Who wrote the Germania?
Tacitus
What desires were expected to be suppressed during the fasting period?
sexual
What was one of the festivals sanctioned by the church?
corpus christi
In what year did the synod in Leptines rant against the excesses of the festival?
743
Many Carnival traditions form an integral part of whose calendar?
Christian
What is insufficient to establish a direct origin from ancient festivals to Carnival?
evidence
Where were some of the best-known traditions first recorded?
Italy
What nationality were the settlers from who introduced Carnival?
Portuguese
What is the only state in India in which Carnival is celebrated?
Goa
Whose Carnival is known local as Cwarmê?
Malmedy
What do some Belgian cities hold during Lent?
Carnivals
Many towns in what region of Croatia observe the Carnival period?
Kvarner
How long has Carnival been celebrated?
centuries
How many parades take place during Carnival?
Three
Where did students in Norway originally see the celebrations?
Paris
Which Carnival is held in Germany's west?
The "Rheinische"
What is the Greece Carnival also called?
the Apokriés
Who holds an annual Phallus festival?
Tyrnavos
In what provinces is the Carnival mainly celebrated in the Netherlands?
southern
How long has the Strumica Carnival been going on?
since at least 1670
What countryside has multiple groups and individuals in disguise?
Slovenian
The chirigotas, choirs and comparsas are the most famous of what?
groups
Where do people dress in masks and costume?
Catalonia
Who oversees the period of reckless behavior?
The King
What city's carnival has documented history from 1790?
Vilanova i la Geltrú
What sort of battle do the adults have at midnight?
meringue
What do people dress in for the King's funeral?
elaborate mourning costume
What is one of the longest free events in the streets?
Carnaval de Solsona
What do the events of Tarragona start with?
building of a huge barrel
What contagiously throbs during the week of events?
music
What is the Carnival known as in Barbados?
Crop Over
What type of competition is a major feature of the festival?
calypso
What's the name of the vehicle where the musicians play?
a Carrosa
What year did the Carnival start in Haiti?
1804
When does  Dirty Mas take place on the Monday before Ash Wednesday?
before dawn
On what day is full costume worn?
Carnival Tuesday
About how many cities and towns in Mexico is Carnival celebrated in?
225
What does Mardi Gras translate to in French?
Fat Tuesday
Which borough of New York City is Carnival celebrated in?
Brooklyn
Which Carnival in Argentina is the most representative of the nature of the Carnival?
Murga
Which Carnival takes place in Oruro in Bolivia?
La Diablada
How many members do Samba Schools have?
thousands
Where did the Carnival gestate out of the purview of rules?
in small/unimportant towns
Where are the most famed Carnival festivities?
Guaranda (Bolivar province) and Ambato (Tungurahua province
What is a tradition unique to the Creole people?
touloulous
What does the Peruvian Carnival incorporate elements of?
violence
How many days does the Carnival in Uruguay last for?
more than 40
What are built in many places through the cities?
tablados
What is the difference between a pesticide and a plant protection product?
pesticides are also used for non-agricultural purposes
What are three pests pesticides target?
plant pathogens, weeds, mollusks
What is one way to group pesticides?
chemical structure
Organochlorine hydrocarbons effect what balance of the nerve fiber?
sodium/potassium
What is one way you could group pesticides?
application method
Pesticides can be used to stop the spread of what dieseases?
West Nile virus, yellow fever, and malaria
What kind of pesticide is DDT?
an organochlorine
On estimate how many megatonnes of pesticides were used between 2006 and 2007?
approximately 2.4
What do monetary savings in crops from the use of pesticide amount to?
$40 billion
Can pesticides have a serious effect on people?
cause acute and delayed health effects
How many workers in agriculture die a year from severly poisining pesticides in developing countries?
18,000
What pecentage of sprayed pesticides affect the wrong species?
Over 98%
Why are hydrocarbon pesticides not excreted?
dissolve in fats
What feature is wanted to assist with reducing negative impacts of pesticides?
that pesticides be degradable
What is one thing that can be used in place of pesticides?
methods of cultivation
What does IPM stand for?
integrated pest management
How much was Sweden able to lower thier pesticide usage?
halved its use
What is one type of pesticide?
biodegradable
What are sulfonyureas commonly used for?
weed control
Is the trade of pesticides and pesticide treated goods limited to the United States?
traded across international borders
What country has attempted to better the controls of pesticide exchanges?
London
What is one measure taken to keep society safe from improper pesticide use?
pesticide applicator regulation
What is a measure of pesticides determined in EPA studies?
material is safe to use and the effectiveness
What are pesticides that are thought to be extremely dangerous called?
restricted use pesticides
What is the earliest records of humans using pesticides?
before 2000 BC
When were laws first created to regulate pesticides?
1910
What type of region is somerset
Somerset is a rural county of rolling hills
What are the people of somerset mentioned in 
Anglo-Saxon Chronicle's entry for AD 845
Who invaded Britain when the Romans Left 
Britain was invaded by Anglo-Saxon peoples
What ended Somersets cottage industry 
The Industrial Revolution in the Midlands and Northern England spelled the end for most of Somerset's cottage industries
How many Somerset soldiers were killed in WW1
Many Somerset soldiers died during the First World War, with the Somerset Light Infantry suffering nearly 5,000 casualties
Why were decoy towns used in WW2
decoy towns were constructed in Somerset in World War II to protect Bristol and other towns, at night
How long have the boundaries of somerset remained constant 
are largely unaltered from medieval times
When did Somerton take over from Ilchester as the county town 
in the late thirteenth century, but it declined in importance and the status of county town transferred to Taunton about 1366
What area lies in the northeastern part of Somerset levels 
the Mendip Hills are moderately high limestone hills
What's the name of the cave system 
an extensive network of caves, including Wookey Hole
What are the Somerset levels 
are a sparsely populated wetland area of central Somerset, between the Quantock and Mendip hills
What are the main coastal towns 
Minehead, Watchet, Burnham-on-Sea, Weston-super-Mare, Clevedon and Portishead
What is the somerset climate like 
a temperate climate which is generally wetter and milder than the rest of the country
What is the leading port of somerset 
Bridgwater was developed during the Industrial Revolution as the area's leading port
What type of factory was built in Somerset 
A Royal Ordnance Factory, ROF Bridgwater was built at the start of the Second World War, between the villages of Puriton and Woolavington
What area employs 15000 people in the couinty
Agriculture and food and drink production continue to be major industries in the county, employing over 15,000 people
Where is willow growing still practiced 
Traditional willow growing and weaving (such as basket weaving) is not as extensive as it used to be but is still carried out on the Somerset Levels
What towns grew around the weaving Industry 
Castle Cary and Frome grew around the medieval weaving industry
What type of stone was supplied in the county 
supplying freestone and building stone
Tourism supports how many people in the County 
estimated in 2001 to support around 23,000 people
What is Hinkley point C 
Hinkley Point C nuclear power station is a project to construct a 3,200 MW two reactor nuclear power station
What is the population growth rate of Somerset county 
Population growth is higher than the national average, with a 6.4% increase, in the Somerset County Council area, since 1991, and a 17% increase since 1981
What percentage of the population is native 
Somerset has a high indigenous British population, with 98.8% registering as white British and 92.4% of these as born in the United Kingdom
How many tiers  does somerset county consist of 
The ceremonial county of Somerset consists of a two-tier non-metropolitan county
What police force covers the ceremonial county 
Somerset is covered by the Avon and Somerset Constabulary, a police force which also covers Bristol and South Gloucestershire
Where does the Glastonbury Music festival take place 
takes place most years in Pilton, near Shepton Mallet
What does Artharian legend claim about Glastonbury
Avalon became associated with Glastonbury Tor when monks at Glastonbury Abbey claimed to have discovered the bones of King Arthur and his queen
What some of the Museums in Bath
American Museum in Britain, the Museum of Bath Architecture, the Herschel Museum of Astronomy, the Jane Austen Centre, and the Roman Baths
How many listed buildings in Somerset 
Somerset has 11,500 listed buildings
Where does the rugby team play 
Bath Rugby play at the Recreation Ground in Bath
Why was the Somerset county Canal built 
to reduce the cost of transportation of coal and other heavy produce
How long were canals used 
usefulness of the canals was short-lived, though some have now been restored for recreation
What  did paddle streamers serve until the 1960's 
the piers at Weston-super-Mare, Clevedon, Portishead and Minehead were served by the paddle steamers of P and A Campbell
What are the  state schools in somerset 
Bath and North East Somerset, North Somerset, and the larger Somerset County Council
What schools can trace their origins back 
Several schools can trace their origins back many years, such as The Blue School in Wells and Richard Huish College in Taunton
What school in Bruton was given royal  foundation status 
King's School, Bruton, was founded in 1519 and received royal foundation status around 30 years later
Bath school of pharmacy founded in 
Bath School of Pharmacy (founded 1907
When was the Collegiate School of Saybrook Colony founded?
1701
How many schools is Yale composed of?
fourteen
When was "An Act for Liberty to Erect a Collegiate School" approved?
October 9, 1701
Where did Elihu Yale grow up?
Wales
When was Ezra Stiles president of Yale?
1778 to 1795
When did William Graham Sumner teach?
1872 to 1909
What was Nathan Hale famous for?
Revolutionary War soldier
In what year was the first debate between Harvard, Yale, and Princeton?
1909
Who attempted to enact measures of football reform?
the presidents of Harvard, Yale, and Princeton
When was the Yale School of Medicine established?
1810
When was Noah Porter president of Yale?
1871 to 1886
How much did  philanthropic foundations donate between 1925 and 1940?
about $7 million
Which group of researchers provided a standard research school environment?
Harrison's group
Who was dean of Yale Medical School from 1920 to 1935?
Milton Winternitz
Who was the first professor for the American studies program?
Norman Holmes Pearson
What sister school of Yale's considered merger in 1966?
Vassar College
What led to Yale's Grievance Board and the Yale Women's Center?
Alexander v. Yale
Why do New Haven city officials dislike Yale?
exemption from local property taxes
What did the Boston Globe have to say about Yale?
"if there's one school that can lay claim to educating the nation's top national leaders over the past three decades, it's Yale."
Why did President Levin believe there were so many Yale alumni presidential candidates?
Yale’s focus on creating "a laboratory for future leaders,"
In the 1988 election, where did George H. W. Bush say Michael Dukakis's foreign policy was born?
Harvard Yard's boutique
Besides Yale, what other two locations were chosen by Tony Blair for the Tony Blair Faith Foundation's United States Faith and Globalization Initiative?
Britain's Durham University and Universiti Teknologi Mara
Who was appointed acting President of Yale in 1977?
Hanna Holborn Gray
What union are the members of the Yale University Police Department a part of?
Yale Police Benevolent Association
How many strikes has Yale had since 1968?
at least eight
Where does Yale own 500 acres of athletic facilities?
western New Haven
Who called Hillhouse Avenue the most beautiful street in America in the 1840's?
Charles Dickens
Who financed a large chunk of the architecture from 1917 to 1931
Edward S. Harkness
What architects have buildings in the Yale Old Campus?
Henry Austin, Charles C. Haight and Russell Sturgis
Who created the Gateway Arch in St. Louis?
Alumnus Eero Saarinen
Who creates sustainability practices at Yale?
Yale's Office of Sustainability
What is another term for some of Yale's secret society buildings?
tombs
When were the first campus police formed at Yale?
1894
What kind of system is Yale's financial aid?
need-based
Where would one find a collection of historical medical equipment?
The Harvey Cushing/John Hay Whitney Medical Library
What is the name of the country's first university partnered art museum?
The Yale University Art Gallery
Which of the New Critics were staffed at Yale?
Robert Penn Warren, W.K. Wimsatt, and Cleanth Brooks
When was Yale's residential college system established?
1933
In what architectural styles were Harkness' original colleges?
Georgian Revival or Collegiate Gothic
Who was Calhoun college named for?
John C. Calhoun
What is the name of the world's oldest humor magazine?
The Yale Record
What do seniors crush to celebrate graduation?
clay pipes
What is the name of the United States' first bowl stadium?
Yale Bowl
How much did Charles B. Johnson pledge to Yale in 2013?
$250 million
What royalty has attended Yale?
Crown Princess Victoria Bernadotte, Prince Rostislav Romanov and Prince Akiiki Hosea Nyabongo
Who were the main characters in Stover at Yale?
Dink Stover and Frank Merriwell
What shattered the unity of the Catholic Church?
the Western Schism
An interest in texts from which two ancient civilizations sparked the Italian Renaissance?
Greek and Roman
Which invention resulted in more widespread use of the printed word?
printing
Along with the Late Middle Ages, what are the other two period of the Middle Ages?
Early Middle Ages and the High Middle Ages
What methods, applied to the study of history, led to the perception of the Middle Ages as a time of recession and crisis?
economic and demographic
What geopolitical entity emerged from the Late Middle Ages?
the nation state
When was the Kalmar Union formed?
1397
In what year was the Holy Roman Empire dissolved?
1806
In what year did Louis die?
1382
In what year did Belgrade fall to the Ottomans?
1521
What city was the seat of the papacy for most of the 14th century?
Avignon
In what year were Isabel I and Ferdinand II married?
1469
Which climactic epoch followed the Medieval Warm Period?
the Little Ice Age
When did the French Jacquerie take place?
1358
Which European cities likely had populations greater than 100,000 in 1500?
Venice, Milan, Naples, Paris and Constantinople
Which conflict in France resulted in the establishment of permanent armies?
Hundred Years' War
What was the chivalric order established by Edward III in 1348?
Order of the Garter
What was the result of the election of two popes at the same time?
Papal Schism
Which Oxford professor believed that the Bible should be the sole authority in religious questions?
John Wycliffe
In what year was Jan Hus burned at the stake?
1415
Into what language did Martin Luther translate the Bible?
German
What new form of accounting was created during the late 13th and early 14th centuries?
double-entry bookkeeping
What privilege was granted to companies on a national level?
monopolies
What caused the decrease in commerce and production in the 14th century?
demographic crisis
Which philosophy attempted to reconcile Aristotelian teachings and Christian theology in the 13th century?
Thomistic
What did Jean Buridan create to explain the motion of projectiles?
the theory of impetus
Who invented the movable printing press?
Gutenberg
Who championed the scientific study of anatomy for the benefit of art?
Donatello
What was the focus of paintings in Italy?
idealized compositions
Who wrote the Divine Comedy?
Dante Alighieri
What style of sacred musical form emerged in the 1330s?
polyphonic
Who introduced a system of musical notation used in the Balkans in the 14th century?
John Kukuzelis
What is the most famous morality play from the medieval period?
Everyman
Which Late Middle Age English kings kept their own troupes of professional actors?
Richard III and Henry VII
What was banned that led to the demise of medieval drama?
religious plays
Along with the invention of printing, and the associated dissemination of the printed word, what other factor is believed to have led to the Protestant Reformation?
democratized learning
Which empire completed its conquest of the Byzantines at the end of the 15th century?
Ottoman
Which Franciscan monk motivated the peasants to fight against Muslims at the Siege of Belgrade?
Saint John of Capistrano
How did Louis II of Hungary die?
drowned in the Csele Creek while trying to escape
Historians from what country in particular do not refer to the Late Middle Ages?
Italy
When was Ann Arbor founded?
1824
Who founded Ann Arbor?
John Allen and Elisha Walker Rumsey
Ann Arbor has been linked with which university?
University of Michigan
When was the Thomas More Law center established?
1999
Which magazine listed Ann Arbor as one of the most liveable cities in the USA?
Forbes
On which river is the city of Ann Arbor situated?
Huron
What is the city of Ann arbor nicknamed as?
Tree Town
Which district has the farmers market in the city?
Kerrytown district
Which century does the Kit houses belong to?
20th century
How many seasons are experienced in the city of Ann Arbor?
four
What is the population density of the city?
4,270.33 people per square mile
What is the average household size in the city of Ann Arbor?
2.22
Name some automobile manufacturers in the city of Ann Arbor
General Motors and Visteon
Which company manufactured cameras in Ann Arbor from 1936 to 1960's?
Argus camera company
Which company's adwords program is headquartered at Ann Arbor?
Google
Who is the city's 2nd largest employer?
Pfizer
When did the Borders Books open up in Ann Arbor?
1971
When was the University Musical Society founded?
1879
Which museum is located at Ann Arbors historic downtown fire station?
The Ann Arbor Hands-On Museum
What type of Art fairs are held at Ann Arbor?
juried fairs
What medical dispensarys are there in Ann Arbor?
medical marijuana dispensaries
Who is the member of the Big Ten Conference in college sports in the city?
University of Michigan
What is a person from Ann Arbor called?
Ann Arborite
What form of government does Ann Arbor have?
council-manager
Who represents the congress in Ann Arbor?
Debbie Dingell
Voters in the city approve which kind of amendment?
charter
Name a private business school located in Ann arbor.
Cleary University
Ann Arbor has one of the leading programs in what subject?
music
Who owns Ann Arbor news?
Booth Newspapers
What magazine covers Ann Arbor's local businesses?
Ann Arbor Business Review
What is the name of the conservative AM radio channel in Ann arbor?
WAAM 1600
WPXD channel 31 is an affliate of which TV network?
ION
What is one time period in which Gothic architecture flourished?
late medieval period
What is an example of where the Gothic style is expressed most strongly?
churches and cathedrals
What type of description did the term "Gothic architecture" originate as?
a pejorative description
What is one region with which the Gothic style is distinctly connected with?
Northern France
At the end of what century was Europe separated into several city states and kingdoms?
the end of the 12th century
Europe experienced a rapid growth in what at this time?
trade
What church was widespread across Europe at this time?
The Catholic Church
During what time period did Romanesque architecture become a pan-European style of construction?
10th to the 13th century
Northern Germany, Netherlands, northern Poland, Denmark, and the Baltic countries used what building material in place of local stone?
brick
What is Romanesque architecture known as in England?
Norman architecture
What was the most important single design aspect that separated the Gothic style from the Romanesque? 
the pointed arch
What is one defining characteristic of the Gothic architectural style?
The pointed arch
What could have affected Medieval Europe's embracing of the pointed arch?
cultural contacts with the Muslim world
The distinctive forms that describe Gothic architecture developed out of which style?
Romanesque
What is considered the first truly Gothic building?
The Basilica of Saint Denis
What is one cathedral in which simple cylindrical columns stand out more than the Gothic features?
Abbey Saint-Denis
Who chose to rebuild the great Church of Saint-Denis in about 1137?
Suger
When was the west front of Saint Denis completed?
in 1140
What type of buildings most prominently display the design aspects of the Gothic architectural style?
cathedrals and great churches
In England, which arm would generally show two distinct sections, choir and presbytery?
The eastern arm
The use of the pointed arch for bringing transverse vaults to the same height diagonal ones, is in disagreement with what theory?
the diffusionist theory
Which type of vault can be used for rectangular and trapezoidal shaped roofs?
The Gothic vault
What is one feature of both large and small Gothic churches?
towers
What enhances the vertical look of the exterior of Gothic construction? 
the towers and spires
What is often found sweeping unbroken from floor to ceiling on the interior of Gothic buildings?
attached shafts
Who encouraged cathedral architects to allow as much light as possible into the building?
the Abbot Suger
What size of window is found above the main portal at York Minster?
a large window
What is the distinguiushing visual design feature of French cathedrals?
their impression of verticality
What is the unique design feature of English cathedrals?
their extreme length
In Germany, Poland and Austria Romanesque architecture is defined by its massive size and what other design element?
modular nature
What is the distinctive design element of Gothic cathedrals of the Iberian Peninsula? 
their spatial complexity
What is the unique characteristic of Italian Gothic design?
the use of polychrome decoration
Who was the Royal palace of Olite built for?
the kings of Navarre
What is an example of secular Northern Brick Gothic architecture from the 14th century?
Stralsund town halls
In what era had university towns grown in wealth and importance?
the late Middle Ages
What is one city with an accumulation of secular Gothic structures? 
Bruges
What is the name of the Archbishop of Canterbury's residence?
Lambeth Palace
When was neo-Gothic popularized by influential figures?
during the second quarter of the 19th century
Who was the exterior architect of the Houses of Parliament?
Sir Charles Barry
Who was the main figure of the Gothic Revival in France?
Eugène Viollet-le-Duc
Name the 8 peopl who began the movement
Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso, joined by Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Robert Delaunay, Henri Le Fauconnier, Fernand Léger and Juan Gris.
What were the three offshoots of Cubism formed in France?
Orphism, Abstract art and later Purism
Between what years did cubism begin? 
1907 and 1911
What was the first phase of Cubism known as? 
Analytic Cubism
Who asserted that the flat canvas supported Cubism? 
Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler
Which artists in the early 19th and 20th century inspired by the newly discovered African, Native American, Micro and Polynesian art?
Paul Gauguin, Henri Matisse, and Pablo Picasso
Which two artists did Douglass Cooper say were very important to the forming of Cubism?
Paul Gauguin and Paul Cézanne
What did Daniel Robbins say about Demoiselles being the beginning of Cubism?
such deductions are unhistorical
Besides Seurat where else are the beginnigs of Cubism found?
in the two distinct tendencies of Cézanne's later work
When did the historical study of Cubism begin?
in the late 1920s
Understanding who's work was the tradition meaning of Cubism formed on?
Braque and Picasso
What year did the term Cubism become used more?
1911
Where did Picassos work until 1912? 
Montmartre
Which four people usually met at Fauconnier's studio in 1910?
Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay and Léger
In what year did the New York Times review the Salon d'Automne?
October 8, 1911
Which Duchamp presentation was displayed in the 1912 Salon des Independants?
Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2
Which politician made the front page of Le Journa in 1912 for his indignation? 
Jean Pierre Philippe Lampué
What against did Metzinger and Gleizes write Du "Cubsime"? 
public anger
What were Kupka's two entries at the Salon d'Automne? 
Amorpha-Fugue à deux couleurs and Amorpha chromatique chaude
By whom was Marcel Duchamp labeled an Orphanist? 
Apollinaire
How many works displayed at The Salon de la Section d'Or at the Galerie La Boétie in Paris, October 1912?
Over 200
What did the 1912 exhiibtion of Cubism show?
indicates the artists' intention of making their work comprehensible to a wide audience
What did Christopher Green say of the difference between traditional cubist and Salon Cubists?
It is by no means clear, in any case
In Du Cubisme who so Metzinger and Gleizes  relate the sense of time to? 
Henri Bergson
What did the technique in Gliezes' piece Le Depiquage represent?
relative motion)
What was the name of the show that introduced Cubism to the USA?
Armory Show
What was the name of the 1909 Cubist sculpture Picassos created?
Head of a Woman
What did the critic Maurice Raynal begin to refer to Cubism in around 1917-1920?
'crystal' Cubism
Before what year was Cubism considered the most innovative? 
1914
Name the three artists who were in part resonsible for the reemergence of Cubism between 1917 and 1924.
Gris, Léger and Gleizes
What two things did Cubism in the early 20th century form an important link between?
art and architecture.
In Cubism what was architechtural interested base on?
the dissolution and reconstitution of three-dimensional form
The ideas of which Cubo Futurist influenced the avant-garde in architecture?
Filippo Tommaso Marinetti
How big was the model of La Maison Cubiste? 
10-by-3-meter
Is original Cubist architecture rare?
Cubist architecture is very rare
What was the essential piece Cubist architects explained in their theoretical rules? 
dynamism
Who were the leading Cubist architects? 
Pavel Janák, Josef Gočár, Vlastislav Hofman, Emil Králíček and Josef Chochol
Did cubism influence other fields outside of painting and scuplture?
The influence of cubism extended to other artistic fields,
Which poets are closely alligned with Cubism?
Guillaume Apollinaire, Blaise Cendrars, Jean Cocteau, Max Jacob, André Salmon and Pierre Reverdy
What specifically dates back with Confucius in the 6th century BC?
Chinese political philosophy
Western political philosophy originates in what philosophy?
ancient Greece
What demarcates a clear distinction between nation and state, as well as religion and state?
Indian political philosophy
Who was the 4th Century BC Indian political philosopher?
Chanakya
Who heavily influenced the early Christian philosophy of Augustine of Hippo?
Plato
What strongly altered the power balances and perceptions of origin of power in the Mediterranean region?
The rise of Islam
The clashes between Ehl-i Sunna and Shia had what kind of character? 
political
What was heavily influenced by Christian thinking?
Medieval political philosophy in Europe
What was one of the most influential works during the period? 
Niccolò Machiavelli's The Prince
What would refer to a set of enduring institutions through which power would be distributed and its use justified? 
state
The concept of the guild was subordinated to the theory of what?
free trade
In what area did these ideological reforms not take place until much later?
Ottoman Empire
Who was responsible for the work Two Treatises of Government?
John Locke
Who developed the Marxist critique of capitalism?
Friedrich Engels
What was a watershed event in human history?
World War I
Who published A Theory of Justice? 
John Rawls
What remained an important focus during the 1950s and 1960s?
Communism
What did John Rawsl publish?
A Theory of Justice
Herbert Marcuse was from what school?
Frankfurt School,
What is often considered valuable for generating a new set of philosophical problems? 
The liberal-communitarian debate
When did republicanism and the capability approach arise?
the end of the 20th century
What is an alloy?
a mixture of metals or a mixture of a metal and another element
What kind of substance is an alloy?
impure
How is steel produced?
Adding a small amount of non-metallic carbon to iron
What causes an alloy to form a solid solution?
If the metals remain soluble when solid
What is electrum made of?
silver and gold
The matrix and the solvent are other names for what?
The primary metal
What is a characteristic of iron sulfide?
very brittle
What is the name of a common alloy?
Steel
What can be done to a metal to enhance its properties?
combining it with one or more other metals or non-metals
What kind of treatment can be made to alter it's properties?
heat treatment
What is the name of steel when it is being formed of two phases?
heterogeneous
Precipitation hardening alloys produce the opposite effects of?
steel
Bronze and brass are examples of what?
substitutional alloys
What was one of the first alloys used by humans?
meteoric iron
Where is the only iron deposit on earth?
Greenland
What does mercury make most metals do?
dissolves
Ancient civilizations often alloyed metals for what reason?
purely aesthetic purposes
Pewter is mostly made up of?
tin
Where did smelting of iron begin?
Anatolia
Heat treatment of steel has been know since what time?
1100 BC
What did the blast furnace help do to pig iron in the middle ages?
produced in much higher volumes than wrought iron
Who discovered precipitation hardening alloys?
Alfred Wilm
In what ocean is Norfolk Island found?
Pacific Ocean
Who was Norfolk Island colonised by?
East Polynesians
In what year did the British government include Norfolk Island as a auxiliary settlement?
1786
When did Lieutenant-Governor of New South Wales Francis Grose start suggesting Norfolk Island be closed as a penal settlement?
1794
Who instructed the Governor of New South Wales Thomas Brisbane to send the worst convicts to Norfolk Island?
the British government
Who were the next settlement of people on Norfolk Island descended from?
Tahitians and the HMS Bounty mutineers
When was the Commonwealth of Australia created?
1901
 What lead to Norfolk Island asking for assistance from Australia in 2010?
Financial problems and a reduction in tourism
What part of the Pacific Ocean is Norfolk Island located?
South
What is the coastline of Norfolk made of?
cliff faces
How many plants can only be found on Norfolk Island?
51
What type of bird does Norfolk Island have few of?
land
What island in the Norfolk Island Group is home to breeding seabirds?
Nepean Island
What used to be abundant in the waters around Norfolk Island?
Cetaceans
Christians make up what percentage of the population of Norfolk Island?
Sixty-two percent
What languages do residents of Norfolk Island speak?
English and a creole language known as Norfuk
What is the only non-mainland Australian territory that is governed by itself?
Norfolk Island
The Assembly of Norfolk Island is made of how many seats?
nine
How many models did Australia propose to Norfolk Island's legislative assembly?
two
When did the Commonwealth of Australia announce that Norfolk Island would no longer be governed by itself?
19 March 2015
When did the Legislative Assembly of Norfolk Island vote regarding the proposed Australian reforms?
8 May 2015
Norfolk Island was originally a what?
colony acquired by settlement
What has been heavily restricted in Norfolk Island, until recently?
immigration
What automatic right do Australian citizens and residents have on Norfolk Island after meeting the criteria in Immigration (Amendment No. 2) Act 2012?
automatic right of residence
What Act declares Non-Australian residents "outside of Australia" while they are on Norfolk Island?
the Migration Act
What is the name of the only medical center on Norfolk Island?
Norfolk Island Hospital
What services do Norfolk Island residents believe should be made available from the Norfolk Island's EEZ profit?
health and infrastructure
Norfolk Island inhabitants and visitors don't pay what?
Australian federal taxes
How many main telephone lines were being used on Norfolk Island, as of 2004?
2532
Where are loading jetties found on Norfolk Island?
Kingston and Cascade
Where was Burke born?
Dublin, Ireland
When did Burke begin attending Trinity College Dublin?
1744
Which bishop didn't realize the satirical nature of Burke's book?
Bishop Warburton
Who thought that Burke's imitation was too perfect to be effective ridicule?
Richard Hurd
When did Burke sign a contract for a history of England?
25 February 1757
What publication did Burke found?
Annual Register
What was William Gerard Hamilton's nickname?
Single-speech Hamilton
Who did Burke want constitutional limits on the power of?
the king
What country did Burke propose restricting trade with?
Ireland
Where was Burke worried Britain might not win a war?
America
When did Lord Bathurst die?
1775
When did Lord North take office?
1770
Where had Paymasters been able to get money from directly until 1782?
HM Treasury
What type of government did Burke think would be inept?
democratic
When was Warren Hastings impeached?
1786
When did Burke charge Hastings for impeachment?
4 April 1786
Who did Parisian women want to return to Paris?
King Louis XVI
When did Richard Price give a sermon to the Revolution Society?
4 November 1789
Which of Burke's writings was inspired by Price's sermon?
Reflections on the Revolution in France
Who did Burke say we look up to with awe?
kings
Who was featured in the most well-known part of Burke's Reflections?
Marie-Antoinette
Who re-translated the Reflections into French?
Louis XVI
Who wrote 'The Rights of Man'?
Thomas Paine
Who asked Burke for more "very refreshing mental food"?
François-Louis-Thibault de Menonville
Fox praised revolutionary principles in a debate about which country?
Russia
When did Burke leave the Whig party?
5 June 1791
What did Burke want the Whigs to condemn?
the French Revolution
Who thought Burke should have written in a more moderate tone?
Portland and Fitzwilliam
Who did Burke write to on Nov 4, 1793?
William Windham
When did Prince Charles write to Burke?
23 October
When did Burke receive a vote of thanks?
20 June 1794
What was Burke's final publication?
Letters on a Regicide Peace
What did Burke think the war with France was against?
an "armed doctrine"
Who did Burke write to about the price of corn?
Pitt
Whose ascendancy did Burke think was malignant?
Protestant
What did Burke think was crucial for human life?
property
Who thought Burke was prophetic about the French revolution's consequences?
Philip Francis
What political party was Gladstone in?
Liberal
Who thought Burke's trial of Hastings was a moral foundation of the British Empire?
Piers Brendon
Which church did Burke most defend?
Anglican
What was Samoa's old name?
Western Samoa
In what year did new discoveries change the course of research on Samoan origins?
2003
Who was the first missionary in Samoa?
John Williams
What country sent their military to protect their interests in Samoa?
Britain
What official organization was responsible for Samoa during most of the 20th century?
the Department of External Affairs
What decade marked the peak of support for opposition to New Zealand's governance?
1920s
What kind of weapon was used against the Mau demonstrators?
Lewis machine gun
What act gave Samoa independence?
New Zealand Western Samoa Act 1961
What office was held by Fiame Mata'afa Faumuina Mulinu'u II?
Prime Minister
What do Samoans call their legislative body?
the Fono
What district is Leulumoega the capital of?
A'ana
What natural process formed the land masses that would become the Samoan islands?
vulcanism
What institution is in charge of Samoa's currency?
Central Bank of Samoa
In which sector would the government of Samoa like to see deregulation?
financial
What was Samoa's major production product before the Germans arrived?
copra
What is copra?
dried coconut meat
What's the most popular church in Samoa?
Christian Congregational Church of Samoa
What religion is practiced by the vast majority of Samoans?
Christianity
What does "siva" mean in Samoan?
dance
What Samoan author write Flying Fox in Freedom Tree?
Albert Wendt
What popular Samoan band has a number in its name?
The Five Stars
What did Lemi Ponifasio name his dance company?
MAU
Who made the film O Tamaiti?
Sima Urale
What do Samoans affectionately call their national rugby team?
Manu Samoa
In what competition did the Samoan rugby team reach the quarter finals in 2013?
Rugby League World Cup
On What date was Pope Paul VI born?
26 September 1897
What type of devotee was Pope Paul VI?
Marian
In what Italian province was Giovanni Battista Montini born?
Brescia, Lombardy
In what year did Montini enter the Catholic seminary to become a priest?
1916
What political problem did Montini feel he needed to address as a diplomat in Poland?
excessive nationalism
What type of natural ability helped Montini in his career in the Roman Curia?
organisational skills
What department did Montini oversee when he worked with the Secretariat of State?
ordinary affairs
In what year was the office for information for prisoners and refugees founded?
1939
Who requested Montini become involved in the Church Asylum movement?
Pius XII
In what year did Pius XII deliver a radio address announcing Montini's papal appointment?
1954
What group did Montini oppose reforming?
Ecumenical Council
What type of political viewpoint was Montini known for as a member of the Catholic leadership?
progressive
To whom did Montini speak as an archbishop in the year 1957?
Second World Congress of Lay Apostolate
What role was Montini not considered a likely candidate for?
pope
What country did Montini visit as Cardinal?
Africa
What role was Montini not perceived to fill unlike some of his fellow cardinals?
reformer
What did Paul VI donate to the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception ?
Papal Tiara
Who was President of the Christian Unity Secretariat?
Cardinal Augustin Bea
What did Paul VI want to keep open with the modern world and people from all walks of life?
a dialogue
What edict did Pope Pius XXIII issue regarding the body of Christ?
Mystici corporis
What topic did Paul VI see as the most important to the church counsel?
Church
What did Paul VI enact between the third and fourth ecumenical sessions?
reforms
For whom did Paul VI work for from 1922 to 1954?
Roman Curia
At what age were cardinals restricted by Paul Vi from participating in conclaves?
eighty
What language was traditionally used in Roman Catholic services?
Latin
What type of language did Paul Vi's reforms approve for use in the Catholic mass?
vernacular
Who established the Pontifical Council for Culture?
Pope John Paul II
In what year was pre and extra marital sex outlawed by the Catholic church?
1976
How many continents did Paul Vi visit as pope?
six
What group did Paul VI address in New York in 1965?
United Nations
What number doubled during Paul Vi's papacy?
foreign embassies
What catholic document compares the Catholic church to the body of Christ?
Ecclesiam suam
What is considered an ideal state for priests in the Catholic church?
Celibacy
Which one of Paul Vi's encyclicals best known in Catholic history?
Humanae vitae
According to Paul VI  to whom are a  man and woman in union with besides each other?
God
Who was president of the World Bank in 1968?
Robert McNamara
To whom did Paul VI tell "not to be afraid" when the church released its statement on birth control?
Edouard Gagnon
In what city did the pope encourage visits from Catholics from other countries?
Rome
What statement addressed the relationship of Italy to Greece in the Catholic church?
Catholic-Orthodox Joint declaration of 1965
Who was the first pope to meet with an Anglican Archbishop as an official Head of Church since 1960?
Paul VI
What did the Cardinal Augustin Bea's Secretariat promote?
Christian Unity
In what year was a group created to work with the World Council of Churches to increase dialogue between Catholic Christians and other Christian denominations?
1965
Which protestants were the first to reach out to the Catholic church in 1964 in Iceland?
Lutherans
Who was Paul VI in favor of cooperating with in the translation of the bible?
Protestant Bible societies
How many future popes did Paul VI create first as cardinals?
three
Where was Paul VI headed to on July 14, 1978?
Castel Gandolfo
In what year was Paul VI beautified?
2014
According to the Vatican who could the healing of an unborn child be attributed to in the 1990's?
pontiff
What magazine broke the story of Paul VI pending saint hood?
Credere
What was Pius XII accused of not condemning?
Holocaust
Who did Paul VI refuse to excommunicate?
opponents
How many Synod of Bishops took place during Paul VI's papacy?
five
How long did Paul VI live for after experiencing a massive heart attack in 1978?
three hours
How many cardinals were from Africa in 1976?
five
What type of theatrical uniforms did Paul VI eradicate from the Vatican?
army
For which country did George VI stop using the title Emperor but continue to use the title of King?
India
What month and day was the death of Prince Albert?
14 December
Which ship did Alber train on in 1913?
HMS Cumberland
What position was Albert appointed at Cranwell?
Officer in Charge of Boys at the Royal Naval Air Service
What did Albert study in Trinity College?
history, economics and civics
Who was Albert infatuated with?
Sheila, Lady Loughborough
Why did Albert fear speaking in public?
his stammer
What was Elizabeth's nickname?
Lilibet
Why was Albert the heir presumptive to the throne?
Edward was unmarried and had no children
What is the Oireachtas?
the parliament of the Irish Free State
What regnal name did Albert adopt?
George VI
What day did George VI become coronated?
12 May 1937
Which prime minister was the King constitutionally bound to support?
Neville Chamberlain
Which two countries did the King and Queen tour in 1939?
Canada and the United States
What kind of tendencies did North America have?
isolationist tendencies
Against who did Britain declare war against in 1939?
Nazi Germany
Who was Winston Churchill's predecessor?
Neville Chamberlain
What country did the King and Queen visit in July 1944?
Italy
What is the association of independent states in Britain called?
the Commonwealth
Who was the Prime Minister of South Africa in 1947?
Jan Smuts
What kind of cancer did the King develop?
lung cancer
What church did the King's funeral take place on the 15th?
Windsor Castle
How high was public faith in the monarchy when King George assumed the throne?
low
What is the largest rating of an electric motor?
100 megawatts
Who created the first electrostatic device?
Andrew Gordon
In what year did Jedlik begin experimenting with electromagnetism?
1827
When were developers competing with Jacobi able to match his accomplishments?
1839/40
Who developed the first mnotor capable of being used for machinery?
William Sturgeon
What made Pacinotti's motor an important advancement?
non-fluctuating current
What needs to exist between the rotor and stator for increased efficiency?
small air gap
How much energy do electric motors use in the modern United States?
more than half
Who built the first induction motor?
Walter Baily
What would a rotor do without current reversal?
brake to a stop
What does the communicator do?
reverses the flow of current in the rotor windings
Current flowing to create a temporary magent is called what?
electromagnet
How is RFI generated?
sparking
What are large brushes favorable for?
motor output
What can a PM motor not be adjusted for?
speed control
Why do miniature PM motors use high energy magnets?
To minimize overall weight and size
What is the typical maximum range of universal motors?
1000 watts
What kind of motor can employ both AC and DC?
universal
At around what RMP do weed trimmer motors operate?
10,000
What determines the properties of speed and torque?
shape of the rotor bars
Where might a resistor be attached?
rotor circuit
What will a motor do if the load is reduced?
speed up
How are torque motors used in computer gaming?
feedback steering wheels
What element of a combustion engine does a governor monitor?
electrical pulses
How much slip does a synchronous motor have?
zero
What do hysteresis synchronous motors' rotors do when slip rate decreases?
becomes temporarily magnetized
What type of motor has two independent multiphase winding sets?
Doubly fed electric motors
A coreless DC motor is distinguished by what?
rapid acceleration
What is a likely problem of coreless DC motors?
Overheating
What was the original purpose for pancake motors?
drive the capstan(s) of magnetic tape drives
What may servo motors be used for?
machine tools, pen plotters, and other process systems
How do servo motors differ from stepper motors?
position feedback is continuous
When are stepper motors most useful?
when precise rotations are required
What is a trait of a sophisticated stepper motor?
proportionally control the power to the field windings
Why were stepper motors abandoned in computer drive designs?
precision and speed limitations
List two alternatives to rotary stepper motors in printer applications.
linear stepper motors or servomotors
Voltage opposing the motor supply voltage is called what?
back electromotive force
What needs to be known to calculate torque?
fields in the air gap
What are factors that determine shaft torque?
torque current), voltage, pole-pair number, excitation frequency (i.e., synchronous speed), and air-gap flux density
What is the only device with dual ported transformer circuit topology?
brushless wound-rotor
What determines continuous torque density?
size of the air-gap area and the back-iron depth
What type of motor is based on the attraction and repulsion of electric charge?
electrostatic
What is the official name of Switzerland?
Swiss Confederation
What is the traditional date of the establishment of the Swiss Confederation?
1 August 1291
Which four main linguistic and cultural regions make up Switzerland?
German, French, Italian and Romansh
How does Switzerland rank worldwide in areas such as quality of life and civil liberties?
top or close to the top
What was the Swiss term for Switzerland during the 16th - 19th centuries?
Switzer
In what year was the toponym Schwyz first attested as Old High German Suittes?
972
What were the two earliest know cultural tribes in Switerland?
Hallstatt and La Tène
In what year did the fall of the Agri Decumates territory transform today's Switzerland?
about 260 AD
From the end of the 4th century, what territory was the western extent of modern-day Switzerland part of?
the Kings of the Burgundians
In 1200, what area did the houses of Savoy, Zahringer, Habsburg, and Kyburg comprise?
the Swiss plateau
In what year did the three original  cantons join with five other cantons to form the "Old Confederacy" of eight states?
By 1353
Which Battle was the first to interrupt the seeming invincibility of the Old Swiss Confederacy in 1515?
Battle of Marignano
Who conquered Switzerland in 1798?
the revolutionary French government
Who refused to fight alongside the Helvetic Republic when it was invaded by the Russians and Austrians?
The Swiss
What did Catholic cantons attempt to set up which caused a civil war in 1839?
a separate alliance (the Sonderbund)
What example inspired much of a new Swiss constitution providing for a federal layout?
American
Though invasion plans were drawn up the the Germans, which war did Switzerland escape attack during?
World War II
Who blockaded Switzerland's trade during World War II?
by both the Allies and by the Axis
Who did Switzerland finally grant the right to vote to following the rest of the Western republic?
women
In what year did Switzerland become a full member of the United Nations?
2002
How large is Switzerland?
41,285 square kilometres (15,940 sq mi)
Which basic topographical area is in the south of Switzerland?
Swiss Alps
What is the highest mountain in Switzerland?
Monte Rosa
Where are Switzerland's glacial conditions located?
mountaintops
What is the weather phenomena characterized by an unexpected warm wind bringing low reletive humidity to the northern Alps during rainfall in the southern Alps?
föhn
What rank was Switzerland in safeguarding the environment according to the 2014 Environmental Performance Index?
first among 132 nations
When was Switzerland's Federal Constitution adopted?
1848
How many members are on the National Council?
200
What serves as the collective Head of State?
The Federal Council
How many legal jurisdictions are Swiss citizens subject to?
three
How many voters are needed to put a constitutional amendment to a national vote?
100,000
According to the Federal Constitution, how many cantons are equal in status?
all 26
When was Switzerland's policy of neutrality internationally recognized?
Congress of Vienna in 1815
How long has Switzerland hosted the United Nations Human Rights Council?
since 2006
Besides the U.N. Headquarters, who hosts many U.N. agencies?
Swiss Confederation
Where do Swiss militia keep their Army issued equipment?
at home
How does the Swiss economy rank worldwide by nominal GDP?
nineteenth largest
What did the World Economic Forum's Global Competetiveness Report Rank Switzerland's economy as?
the most competitive in the world
What is Switzerland's most important economic sector?
manufacturing
What percentage of employees belonged to a trade union in 2004?
about 25%
How is Switzerland ranked of 189 countries in the Ease of Doing Business Index?
20th
What size was the Swiss Federal budget in 2010?
62.8 billion Swiss francs
What has contributed to high food prices in Switzerland?
Agricultural protectionism
Who has authority of school systems in Switzerland?
the cantons
How many universities are in Switzerland?
12
What Swiss world famous physicist developed his Special relativity while working in Bern?
Albert Einstein
What is the world's largest laboratory?
CERN
How has Switzerland maintained its relationships with the EU?
through bilateral agreements
How many bilateral agreements did Bern and Brussels sign to further liberalise trade ties?
seven
In 2006, what did Switzerland approve 1 billion francs of supportive investment for?
poorer Southern and Central European countries
In February of 2014, what did Swiss voters narrowly approve to restrict?
immigration
What was the former 10-year moratorium on the construction of nuclear plants the result of?
a citizens' initiative
In 2011, what time frame did the Swiss government give for ending its use of nuclear energy?
2 or 3 decades
How many passengers does the most dense rail network in Europe carry annualy?
over 350 million
What is the Swiss private-public managed road network funded by?
road tolls and vehicle taxes
When did Switzerland sign the Kyoto Protocol?
1998
What does Switzerland charge for the disposal of in order to encourage recycling?
Rubbish
In 2010, what percentage of the population was made up of foreigners?
23.3%
How many official languages does Switzerland have?
four
How many linguistic regions of Switzerland have their own form of local dialect?
four
What are terms that are not used outside of Switzerland known as?
Helvetisms
Who are Swiss citizens required to buy health insurance from?
private insurance companies
How much of the Swiss population live in urban areas?
Between two thirds and three quarters
What is the population density of the plateau?
450 people per km2
What is the predominant religion of Switzerland?
Christianity
What percentage of Swiss people claimed no church affiliation in 2012?
21.4%
When did Geneva convert to Protestantism?
1536
What culture is linguistically isolated from the rest of Switzerland?
Romansh
What symbolism has played an important role in shaping the history of Switzerland?
Alpine
What causes the government to exert greater control over broadcast media than print media?
finance and licensing
What 3 mountain sports are among the most popular in Switzerland?
Skiing, snowboarding and mountaineering
What is the nickname for the Swiss national football team?
Nati
What was hosted for the 10th time by Switzerland in 2009?
IIHF World Championship
What was banned in Switzerland in 1955 after the Le Mans disaster?
Motorsport racecourses and events
Which popular Swiss sport is a cross between baseball and golf?
Hornussen
What part of Switzerland has a particularly high number of fine-dining establishments?
western Switzerland
What is the most popular alcoholic drink in Switzerland?
wine
Of Africa what rank in size country is Mali?
Mali is the eighth-largest country in Africa
In the latter part of the 19th century what country took control of Mali?
France seized control of Mali
What area of Mali did conflict arise in January of 2012?
northern Mali
The Sonhgai Empire's demise was due to what invasion?
Moroccan invasion in 1591
What regime was overthrown in 1968?
Keïta regime
In what year did Mali get a new constitution? 
1991
What type of rallies were being held in March of 1991?
pro-democracy
Who was president during the March protests?
Moussa Traoré
Who announced over the Radio that the president had been arrested?
Lieutenant Colonel Amadou Toumani Touré
What rebellion began in January of 2012?
Tuareg rebellion
Mali is located in what Zone?
torrid
What year was the constitution amended from the previous one of 1992?
1999
Who is given both titles of commander of armed forces and chief of state?
president
What is Mali's highest court?
Supreme Court
In what year did Mali start economic changes?
1988
In 2007 what percent of people were 12 and under?
48
Roughly how many Malians are descendants of slaves?
800,000
Ethnic tension are between what two groups of people?
Songhai and nomadic Tuaregs
What four main health problems do the Malian people currently have?
poverty, malnutrition, and inadequate hygiene and sanitation
What does ICRISTAT stand for?
International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
What are the two main prevalent infectious diseases of Mali?
cholera and tuberculosis
What is the translation or meaning of a griot?
Keepers of Memories
What is the purpose of an NPO?
A nonprofit organization (NPO, also known as a non-business entity) is an organization whose purposes are other than making a profit.
What types of organizations are NPOs usually associated with?
charitable
How does an NPO have to handle surplus money?
they must be retained by the organization for its self-preservation, expansion, or plans
How are charity or service NPOs usually organized?
profit corporation or as a trust, a cooperative, or they exist informally
What are the two top types of NPOs?
membership and board-only
How are NPOs classified in Canada?
incorporated or unincorporated
When was the Canada Corporations Act, Part II repealed?
2009
Who grants a charitable status to an NPO in Canada?
Canada Revenue Agency (CRA)
What do NPOs in South Africa give to their donors?
a tax certificate
What is the definition of a charity?
nonprofit organisation that meets stricter criteria regarding its purpose and the method in which it makes decisions and reports its finances
How does a US NPO apply for tax exempt status?
applying to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
What form must an NPO make available to the public?
990 forms
Who is in control of the organization?
board of directors
What are ways that a charitable foundation receives money for it's cause?
government funds, grants from charitable foundations, direct donations
What is the biggest concern of non-profits in Australia?
a purpose relating to a public good
What kind of marketing budgets do NPOs usually have?
minimal or nonexistent
How is resource mismanagement allowed to happen so easily?
employees are not accountable to anybody with a direct stake in the organization
What problems with employment do Non Profits face?
Competition for employees with the public and private sector
What can the public and private sector offer employers that NPOs usually cannot?
higher wages, more comprehensive benefit packages, or less tedious work
Can Npos match the wages of public and private sector employers?
will never be able to match the pay
What is one of the wealthiest nonprofit organizations in America?
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
What is a well known NPO that helps people from low incomes become homeowners?
Habitat for Humanity
What does .org on a URL mean?
organizations that didn't fit anywhere else
What type of language has it been suggested that NPOs should begin to get away from?
"non" words
What state is Raleigh the capital of?
North Carolina
What university is in Raleigh?
North Carolina State University
What kind of city is Raleigh?
planned
What energy center is downtown?
Duke
How many miles is the city from Isaac's Tavern?
11
Who was the governor during the Civil War?
Zebulon Baird Vance
What year did the News and the Observer merge?
1880
When was the last time two black congressmen were elected?
1898
When was the Great Depression?
1930s
Where is Raleigh located?
northeast central region of North Carolina
What historic hotel is downtown?
Fayetteville Street downtown business district,
Where is Midtown Raleigh?
North of the I-440 Beltline
Where is West Raleigh?
along Hillsborough Street and Western Boulevard.
What are in the area?
large shopping areas.
Where is South Raleigh?
along U.S. 401 south toward Fuquay-Varina
What is to the west of Southeast Raleigh?
downtown
What is the climate of Raleigh?
humid subtropical climate
How much snow does Raleigh get?
6.0 inches
What does the area experience?
drought
How many families lived in Raleigh in 2000?
61,371
What percent of households had children in 2000?
26.5%
How many people are affiliated with religion?
46.41% of people
What is the main industrial area of Raleigh?
banking/financial services;
Where are major touring acts hosted in the city?
The Time Warner Cable Music Pavilion
Where is the Raleigh Memorial Auditorium?
Duke Energy Center for the Performing Arts
What is the North Carolina Museum of Art near?
North Carolina State Fairgrounds
When did the Carolina Hurricanes start in Raleigh?
1997
What sports teams have been in Raleigh?
Raleigh IceCaps of the ECHL (1991–1998); Carolina Cobras of the Arena Football
Where is North Carolina State University?
southwest Raleigh
How many sites are throughout Raleigh?
150
How many incidents of violent crime were there in 2010?
1,740
Who operates the public schools in Raleigh?
Wake County Public School System
What is the area's primary airport?
Raleigh-Durham International Airport,
What was Triangle Transit called before?
Triangle Transit Authority,
What does RDN stand for?
Registered dietitian nutritionists
In which time period did the study of nutrition begin?
6th century BC
What does the Book of Daniel contain?
first recorded nutritional experiment with human subjects
How long was the doctrines of Galen in use for?
1500 years
Who criticized Galen in the 1500s?
Paracelsus
When was the first nutrition experiment performed?
1747
Which dietary component was not fed to dogs resulting in their death?
protein
What was the main component of Japanese sailor's diet?
white rice
What element can be found in thyroid glands?
iodine
What was measured in the early 20th century?
caloric energy expenditure
What was notable about the discovered vitamin A?
fat-soluble
Who claims that the list of nutrients that humans require is incomplete?
Marion Nestle
Which category is represented by carbohydrates and fats among other nutrients?
macronutrients
Other than fats, what else consists of atoms of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen?
carbohydrates
What was traditionally believed to be absorbed quickly causing blood - glucose levels to rapidly rise?
simple carbohydrates
What example of a carbohydrate is unable to be fully absorbed in humans?
Dietary fiber
Dietary fat can be said to consist of fatty acids bonded to which molecule?
glycerol
Where do saturated fats in a diet typically originate from?
animal sources
What does it mean when it is claimed that many fatty acids are non - essential?
the body can produce them as needed
What is able to prevent AA from being released from membranes?
Omega-3 EPA
What primarily makes up the enzymes in our body that regulate the chemical reactions that occur?
Proteins
What would be required for the human body to potentially have a chance to create a complete protein source?
two incomplete protein sources
What was the early recommended amount of water that was supposedly required to keep the body hydrated?
6–8 glasses of water daily
Who was similar recommended intake volumes as adults?
the elderly
What kind of element are dietary minerals?
inorganic chemical elements
Which vitamin can be synthesized in the skin?
Vitamin D
What is another term that can be used to describe "potentially damaging" compounds?
mutation causing
What term collectively describes "Firmicutes" and "Bacteroidetes" among others?
phyla
Heart disease and obesity are examples of what kind of disease?
"Western" diseases
Who released a guideline that recommends that people follow a whole plant food diet?
United Healthcare/Pacificare
Other than nitrogen, what other element varies greatly between a carnivore and herbivore diet?
carbon
Through what part of the body are nutrients transported to feed cells?
bloodstream
What needs to be compared to the waste products from humans to determine what is absorbed in the body?
food
How do plants absorb essential elements that are present in the soil?
through their roots
What can environmental depletion lead to?
crucial nutrition-related health problems
What is the abbreviation for licensed dietitians in the US?
LD
Nutritional standards and recommendations are produced by a joint effort between the US Department of Agriculture and which other department?
US Department of Health and Human Services
What is the goal of Smart Bodies?
to promote nutrition literacy
In England and which other country is there a curricula that revolves around nutritional education?
Wales
In which country were there no specific nutritional literacy studies on a national level that could be found?
U.S.
What percentage of people were were found to have a high likelihood of low literacy skills in the Mississippi Delta region?
52
What did the studies show there was a lack of understanding of by the population?
nutritional information
An imbalance in the intake of nutrients by any organism can be referred by which term?
Malnutrition
What is the term that refers to a viewpoint that believes a reliance on food science is a cause of poor nutrition and ill health?
Nutritionism
What are organizations targeting with the aim of improving nutritional content or resources?
school cafeterias
Which health issue is now becoming a common issue in developing countries?
Cancer
Reduced insulin function can also go by what other term?
insulin resistance
Insulin resistance has been strongly linked to which health issue?
obesity
Obesity can cause resistance to which hormone?
leptin
The debate regarding factors influencing the development of insulin and leptin is not just about how, but also about what other factor?
to what extent
Hyponatremia is the term that refers to which action by a human?
Excess water intake, without replenishment of sodium and potassium salts
The increase in cases of diabetes, obesity and heart disease can be traced back to an increase in the consumption of what product?
sugar
When did the Industrial Revolution roughly begin?
two hundred years ago
Centrifugation and pressing are prime examples of what?
Modern separation techniques
What did people who became ill with beri-beri have as their main food source?
polished rice
What is undoubtedly a cause of the increase in obesity related diseases that are becoming prevalent?
widespread application of some modern food processing technologies
What year did the Crimean War begin?
1853
Which two figures refused to back down after the churches worked out their disagreements?
Nicholas I of Russia and Napoleon III
Where did the war begin?
Balkans
Near what sea did the allies decide to attack the Russians?
Black Sea
How long did it take for Sevastopol to fall?
eleven months
What modern technologies were first used during the Crimean War?
explosive naval shells, railways, and telegraphs
In what year did The Greek Uprising take place?
1821
In what year did France move into Alger?
1830
In 1838, who was not pleased of their lack of power in Syria?
Muhammad Ali of Egypt
Who operated as the "police of Europe"?
Russia
For 200 years, Russia been expanding across what area?
Wild Fields
What did Russia fail to build south?
railroad network
In what year did France and the U.K declare war on Russia?
1854
What was the name of the ship that Napoleon sent to the Black Sea?
Charlemagne
Who was the British ambassador in 1853?
George Hamilton Seymour
Who was the Prime Minister of the British Government in 1853?
Lord Aberdeen
Who sent armies across the Pruth River?
the Tsar
Who was given the special role of guardian over the Orthodox Christians in Moldavia and Wallachia?
Russia
What European powers met in Vienna for a conference?
United Kingdom, France, Austria and Prussia
What battle took place on November 30, 1853?
Battle of Sinop
Who was concerned with Russia  capturing Constantinople?
Britain
In what year did the Hungarian revolution take place?
1848
The Ottoman ultimatum took place in what year?
1853
Who advanced on Dobruja in the spring of 1854?
the Russians
Who stopped the Russians from attacking Vidin?
Austrian forces
The city of Varna is located on what coast of the Black Sea?
western coast
At what harbor did a Russian fleet attacked a Ottoman force?
harbour at Sinop
Where was the port where most of the Black Sea fleet was located?
Sevastopol
In what year did the Russians leave Wallachia and Moldavia?
1854
In what year did the Crimean campaign open?
1854
How many men did the Russians lose after three hours?
6000 men
When did the army march to the southeast?  
25 September
When did the continuous attack start?
17 October
Who did the Russians attack at the beginning off the Battle of Balaclava?
93rd Highlanders
Who countered the Russian cavalry's movement?
Heavy Brigade
Who led the charge on the Valley of Balaclava?
Cardigan
What stopped ground operations during the winter?
a deteriorating supply situation
What did the French believe was instrumental in their defense?
the Malakoff
Who was the garrison commander that died on June 30th 1855?
Admiral Nakhimov
What was being built that caused unpremeditated fighting on each side?
forward rifle pits and defensive positions
What did the British-French commanders send to disrupt Russian communications and supplies?
Anglo-French naval squadron
What caused the HMS Jasper to get stuck in shallow water?
a fisherman who moved buoys
Who captured the border front of Saint Nicholas during a night attack?
the Turks
Who make the Turks retreat back to Batum?
Eristov
What caused the number of Turkish soldiers to decrease?
disease
Who vetoed Omar Pasha from landing in Georgia?
the western powers
What is the Russian capital?
Saint Petersburg
When did the French and British capture the Russian Bomarsund fortress?
August 1855
What greatly benefited the Russian resistance?
newly invented blockade mines
Who was in charge of the HMS Pique?
Rear Admiral David Price
Who gave Camillo di Cavour the orders to send soldiers to aid the French and British forces?
Victor Emmanuel II
When Russia attacked the Ottoman Empire who glimpsed an opportunity to advance North and South?
King Otto of Greece
On January 21 1855, where did people protest the war?
Trafalgar Square
Where was the Treaty of Paris signed?
the Congress of Paris
What year did the Treaty of Paris fall?
1871
Who lost the most due to the Crimean War?
Austria
France rose to power after what war?
The Crimean War
Who made the view of diplomatic drift popular?
A. W, Kinglake
What did the Russians fear losing without compensation?
British Columbia
Who provided notable documentation of the war?
William Howard Russell
Who demanded drastic reforms after the war?
the newspapers
The tactical use of railways was first used during what war?
The Crimean War
What two key elements that distinguish literature as a written form of art?
deemed to have artistic or intellectual value
The changing nature of the meaning of the term "literature" can be described as what?
a "culturally relative definition"
What is the main component of the qualitative judgment definition of literature?
writing that possesses high quality or distinction
A definition of literature that incorporates style and the poetic nature of prose is what?
formalist
What elements of language make for poetic literature?
aesthetic and rhythmic qualities
Literature intended for performance is what?
Drama
The earliest form of drama we know of was part of what culture?
Greek
Literature, regardless of how the definition is applied, can be interpreted as what?
written records
What are some classical societies whose literature is still studied today?
Ancient China, Ancient India, Persia and Ancient Greece and Rome
Subjects featured in Ancient Chinese literature include what?
philosophy, historiography, military science, agriculture, and poetry
What were some different genres that emerged from ancient India's oral literary traditions?
drama, fables, sutras and epic poetry
What two epic narratives were written by Homer?
the Iliad and the Odyssey
Much medieval literature was influenced by the works of what classic culture?
Roman
What literary movement in the 1700s recalled the fantastical literature of medieval times?
Romanticism
What sub-group of literature emerged in the 20th century?
Genre fiction
What two elements have reduced the literary nature of scientific journals?
advances and specialization
What classic area of study is now mostly reserved for academic consideration?
Philosophy
Literature gives the reader insights into what areas of its characters?
intimate emotional aspects
How does literature unite members of a society?
by provoking universal emotions
Who conceived of "The Third Force Psychology Theory?"
Maslow
What is literary historical writing sometimes called?
creative nonfiction
What Babylonian ruler created formal law tables?
Hammurabi
Literary devices are employed for what reason?
produce specific effects
What was the term used to describe the age in which Ibn Sina created a big body of work?
the Islamic Golden Age
What was one subject that Avicenna further developed?
theology
What present-day country was Avicenna born in?
Uzbekistan
What secret society was Avicenna considered to be a follower of?
the Brethren of Purity
What had Avicenna memorized by the age of 10?
Quran
What text could Avicenna not understand?
the Metaphysics of Aristotle
At what age did Avicenna turn to away from philosophy?
16
Who was Ibn Sina's first appontment?
the emir, Nuh II
At what age did Avicenna lose his father?
22
What city did Ibn Sina settle in?
Rey
Where did Ibn Sina hope to flee to after Hamadan?
city of Isfahan
In what language was most of Ibn Sina's works written in?
Arabic
Ibn Sina's Book of Healing was partially available in what language?
Latin
What does Islamic philosophy more clearly explain than Aristotelianism?
essence and existence
What did Avicenna start an inquiry into?
the question of being
What is one modality of being that Avicenna analyzed?
necessity
The necessary exists due to what?
Its-Self
What religion was Avicenna?
Muslim
What did Avicenna consider to be the only way to distinguish real philosophy from illusion?
philosophy
Which interpretation of Avicenna's work was more taught in Islamic schools?
al-Razi
Where was Avicenna once imprisoned?
the castle of Fardajan
Where did reason interact with sensation according to Avicenna?
the brain
What philosopher did Avicenna discuss in his The Book of Healing text?
Aristotle
What was a subject that Avicenna studied, but did not develop a theory on?
temporal logic
What is Avicenna's Book of Healing referred to in Arabic?
Kitab al-shifa
What does Avicenna ground his psychology on?
physiology
What Muslim astronomer did Avicenna influence?
Al-Biruni
What work by Avicenna is thought to be a fake?
Liber Aboali Abincine de Anima in arte Alchemiae
Who said that Ibn Sina was one of the greatest thinkers?
George Sarton
In what modern country is Avicenna considered an icon?
Iran
What superpower in 1980 created a stamp in honor of Avicenna?
the Soviet Union
When was it announced that Avicenna would have medical directories named after him?
March 2008
What movie was made about Avicenna's younger years?
Youth of Genius
What is a rare discipline that Avicenna worked on?
alchemy
Who published Avicenna's poem on logic?
Schmoelders
What are logograms used in the writing of Chinese?
Chinese characters
What number in the tens of thousands?
Chinese characters
What use the traditional radical-based character index?
modern Chinese dictionaries
What are most words in Old Chinese?
monosyllabic
What has many homophones?
Modern Chinese
What represent words of the language using several strategies?
Chinese characters
What are the most numerous characters?
Semantic-phonetic compounds
What side is a phonetic indicator located on?
right-hand side
What is occasionally written with two characters that contain the same radical?
bisyllabic word
What may have been found at Neolithic sites in China in recent decades? 
series of inscribed graphs and pictures
What was the earliest confirmed evidence of the Chinese script?
oracle bones
What existed as early as the Shang dynasty?
oracle-bone script
What has evolved over time?
scripts
What has evolved slowly in the State of of Qin?
Seal script
Were multiple scripts used during the Han period?
there were in fact multiple scripts in use
What appeared at the end of the late Eastern Han period?
early form of semi-cursive script
What had been linked to Zhong Yao?
Regular script
What were the North and South considered as?
dynasties
What contains four strokes?
right half of the character
What often allow users to locate entries in several ways?
Chinese character dictionaries
What can be easily coined by writing on paper?
characters
What can be coined at any time?
New characters
What are not used in formal written Chinese?
dialect characters
What supports 48,027 characters?
the official national encoding standard
What country uses simplified Chinese characters?
China
What is written in modern usage?
new characters
What does not include characters in the Chinese family?
Zhonghua Zihai
What remains unknowable?
The total number of Chinese characters from past to present
What is one of the most complex characters in modern Chinese dictionaries?
U+9F49
What have become more rare?
complex characters
Who is a Taiwanese politician?
Yu Shyi-kun
What have been constantly found in religious or ritual use?
Chinese characters
What are disyllabic and usually written with two characters?
SI units
What characters are often non-standard?
polysyllabic
What may be contracted into single characters?
compound words and set phrases
What are primarily morphosyllabic?
Chinese characters
What are written with very precise rules?
Chinese characters
What have a characteristic shape?
Roman letters
What are commonly used?
Regular script typefaces
What is the art of writing Chinese characters?
Chinese calligraphy
What script is used informally?
cursive
What script is only used in artistic seals?
seal
What are also known as "traditional"?
characters in the Hong Kong standard and the Kangxi Dictionary
What did the Japanese government institute? 
series of orthographic reforms
What are drawn from conventional abbreviated forms?
majority of simplified characters
Who issued its first round of character simplifications in two documents?
The People's Republic of China
What almost always includes character simplification?
Caoshu
What varies greatly?
The use of traditional Chinese characters versus simplified Chinese characters
Who is John Gulick?
Rev
What is now limited to ceremonial uses?
Chinese characters in Vietnam
When did the second ruler of North Korea pass away?
December 2011
What are students taught to memorize?
native Korean pronunciation for the hanja's meaning
What is still being used according to experts?
Hanja
What was the dominant form of written communication?
Literary Chinese
What also includes a pair of syllabaries?
Written Japanese
What has been promoted as a justification for spelling reforms?
literacy
The first known European explorer to reach Bermuda was of what nationality?
Spanish
What is the capital of Bermuda?
St. George's
What two business drive Bermuda's economy?
offshore insurance and reinsurance, and tourism
Bermuda is located in what ocean?
Atlantic Ocean
What is the limestone cap of the seamount made from?
marine organisms
In the Bermuda land mass, how many islands are named "Long Island"?
two
What directional shore of Bermuda is home to the majority of its hotels?
the south shore of the island
The only indigenous mammals of Bermuda are five species of what animal?
bats
When did Bermuda have a large amount of people immigrating to it?
20th century, especially after the Second World War.
There is no distinction between what two ethnicities of Bermudians?
black and white
What term is used to refer to the majority of black people in Bermuda?
Bermudian blacks
Why is the black population in Bermuda different from that in the British West Indies and the United States?
The first blacks to arrive in Bermuda in any numbers were free blacks from Spanish-speaking areas of the West Indies
What is one group that Bermuda's black population can link some of their ancestry to?
Native Americans
What is considered the primary language of Bermuda?
English
What historical significance can the book The History of Mary Prince claim?
The first notable, and historically important, book credited to a Bermudian
What type of painting are Bermuda artists known for?
watercolours
Who is credited with discovering Bermuda?
Juan de Bermúdez
Sir George Somers embarked on a mission to do what?
relieve the colony of Jamestown
Who was one of the original survivor's to sail on to Jamestown.
John Rolfe
What is a major reason that Bermuda has problems with overpopulation?
limited land area,
Why did the Somers Isles Company decide to surpress shipbuilding?
needed Bermudians to farm to generate income from the land
What event caused major changes in Bermuda?
end of the war
Who was Bermuda's main trading partner before the war?
American colonies
Why is Captain Fritz Joubert Duquesne famous?
most famous escapee
When did the first aeroplane reach Bermuda?
1930
What did Imperial Airways and Pan American begin scheduling in 1937?
flying-boat airline services from New York and Baltimore to Darrell's Island, Bermuda
The Governor of Bermuda gets his authority from whom?
the monarch
When was the Constitution of Bermuda enforced?
1 June 1967
Who has the largest accredited diplomats in Bermuda?
The United States
Where were the Uyghurs transferred from?
United States Guantánamo Bay detention camp
When was homosexuality legalized in Bermuda?
May 1994.
What did the Virgin Islands announce in 2007?
they would seek ties with CARICOM
Why did the English originally colonize Bermuda?
an extension of Virginia
What cultural group has dominated the PLP?
West Indians and their descendants.
Due to the British goverment's defense forces, what are two nicknames for bermuda?
the Gibraltar of the West" and "Fortress Bermuda"
What did the US ask of Britain in May 1940?
base rights in Bermuda
What did the US begin building in 1941?
two airbases
What was the NAS primarily a base for?
seaplane
When did Bermudians serve in the British Armed forces?
World War I and World War II
What was the new currency in Bermuda as of 1970?
Bermudian dollar
Why is Bermuda considered an offshore financial center?
minimal standards of business regulation/laws and direct taxation on personal or corporate income
What does the Exchange specialize in?
listing and trading of capital market instruments such as equities, debt issues, funds
Who created and popularized many of the sports that we love today?
British Public schools and universities in the 19th century
What happened to the Public schoolboys in these sports?
professionals soon displaced the amateur ex-Public schoolboys
What Bermuda sport team participated in the 2007 world cup?
national cricket team
What events did Bermuda compete in at the 2004 Summer Olympics?
sailing, athletics, swimming, diving, triathlon and equestrian events
Who won the 2011 Caribbean championships?
The Bermuda Rugby Union team
When did the Southern and Northern Nigeria Protectorates merge?
1914
Which country is called the 'Giant of Africa'?
Nigeria
What is Nigeria's 2015 GDP?
$500 billion
When did Boko Haram become active in Nigeria?
2002
What is Nigeria named after?
the Niger River
Which tribe ran the city of Nri?
Igbo
What region has Nigeria traded with for centuries?
North Africa
When did Britain outlaw slave trade?
1807
Where was Britain's claim to West Africa recognized in 1885?
the Berlin Conference
What religion built Western schools in Nigeria?
Christian
What was Nigeria's status after independence from the UK?
a Commonwealth Realm
In what year were there two military coups in Nigeria?
1966
What did Eastern Nigeria want to call itself as an independent nation?
Republic of Biafra
Which oil group did Nigeria join?
OPEC
Which Nigerian leader transferred power in 1979?
Olusegun Obasanjo
Which Nigerian leader decided Nigeria would return to democracy in 1990?
Ibrahim Babangida
To when did Babangida delay the return to democracy?
1992
When did Nigeria regain democracy?
1999
Who won the 2011 election?
Goodluck Jonathan
What is Nigeria's form of government?
Federal Republic
What are Nigeria's 3 biggest ethnic groups?
Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba
How many seats does the People's Democratic Party of Nigeria have in the House?
223
What group did Nigeria support against white governments in Southern Africa?
African National Congress
How many inches of rain does southern Nigeria get each year?
60 to 80 inches
What does the Cross River State area of Nigeria have the world's largest variety of?
butterflies
What type of vegetation is in central Nigeria?
savannah
What is the largest Nigerian city?
Lagos
How many states does Nigeria have?
thirty-six
Where did Nigeria's 2012 GDP rank?
30th in the world
When was the Niger Delta Nembe Creek Oil field found?
1973
How much money did overseas Nigerians send home in 2004?
USD 2.3 billion
What is Nigeria's local vehicle manufacturer?
Innoson Motors
When did Nigeria launch its first satellite?
27 September 2003
What was Nigeria's second satellite called?
NigeriaSat-2
What was Nigeria's third satellite called?
NigComSat-1
When was Nigeria's fourth satellite launched?
December 19, 2011
What was Nigeria's population in 2009?
154,729,000
What is the official language of Nigeria?
English
What is Nigerian Pidgin English often called?
'Pidgin' or 'Broken'
What are the most popular religions in Nigeria?
Islam and Christianity
What type of Islam is most common in Nigeria?
Sunni
In 2001, what percent of Nigeria's population was Muslim?
about 50%
How many Nigerian Christians are Protestant?
74%
When did many newer churches start growing in Nigeria?
Since the 1990s
When did the Bamako Initiative begin?
1987
How much of Nigeria has HIV as of 2012?
3.1 percent
What was the last African country to still have significant Polio problems?
Nigeria
What department runs Nigeria's schools?
the Ministry of Education
What is Nigeria's most popular organized-crime activity?
drug trafficking
What law is the Nigerian 419 scam nicknamed after?
Section 419 of the Nigerian Penal Code
In 2011 rankings, how bad was Nigeria's corruption ranking?
143 out of 182 countries
When did the Nigerian film industry begin?
the 1960s
Which years did Nigeria win the African Cup of Nations?
1980, 1994, and 2013
Nwankwo Kanu won what honor twice?
African Footballer of the year
How are Nigerian prisoners mistreated?
rape, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment
How far back does evidence of inhabitation date back
inhabitation in the region of Utrecht, dating back to the Stone Age (app. 2200 BCE)
Who raided German territories regularly 
Germanic tribes regularly invaded the Roman territories.
Who tried to convert Frisians
English and Irish missionaries set out to convert the Frisians
What hapend when Frankish rulers established the system of feudalism
the Bishops of Utrecht came to exercise worldly power as prince-bishops
What was the Most dominant Cathedral in Utrecht
The most dominant of these was the Cathedral of Saint Martin, inside the old Roman fortress
What did Utrecht's location allow 
allowed Utrecht to become an important trade centre in the Northern Netherlands.
What year did the bishop lose power 
In 1528 the bishop lost secular power over both Neder- and Oversticht – which included the city of Utrecht – to Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor
Why was the transition to a new union difficult 
Charles V was struggling to exert his power over the citizens of the city, who had struggled to gain a certain level of independence from the bishops
What was signed in 1579 
the northern seven provinces signed the Union of Utrecht, in which they decided to join forces against Spanish rule
Who did the fortified city fall to in 1672 
temporarily fell to the French invasion in 1672 (the Disaster Year); where the French invasion was only stopped west of Utrecht
What hapend in the early 19th century
the role of Utrecht as a fortified town had become obsolete
What was railway area developed into 
were developed following modernist ideas of the 1960s, in a brutalist style
What Socio economic problems does Utrecht face 
About 38% percent of its population either earns a minimum income or is dependent on social welfare
What does the dense population make difficult 
which makes concise definitions of its agglomeration difficult, and somewhat arbitrary.
what dominates the cityscape
Utrecht's cityscape is dominated by the Dom Tower, the tallest belfry in the Netherlands and originally part of the Cathedral of Saint Martin
What is a landmark in the city 
the old centre and the canal structure in the inner city
What is the main railway station 
Utrecht Centraal is the main railway station of Utrecht
Where is the bus station located 
The main local and regional bus station of Utrecht is located adjacent to Utrecht Centraal railway station, at the East and West entrances
What does Utrecht provide for cyclist 
Utrecht has an extensive network of cycle paths, making cycling safe and popular. 33% of journeys within the city are by bicycle
Is Utrecht connected to the Dutch road system
well-connected to the Dutch road network. Two of the most important major roads serve the city of Utrecht:
What does Utrecht's economy  depend on 
The economy of Utrecht depends for a large part on the several large institutions located in the city
What is the name of the large shopping center 
Hoog Catharijne
What is the largest University in the city 
The most prominent of these is Utrecht University (est. 1636), the largest university of the Netherlands with 30,449 students
Cultural life in Utrecht is second to 
Utrecht city has an active cultural life, and in the Netherlands is second only to Amsterdam
Where are young artist trained 
Training of artists is done at the Utrecht School of the Arts
What does the city host on Sundays 
To promote culture Utrecht city organizes cultural Sundays
What football team is Utrecht home to
Utrecht is home to the premier league (professional) football club FC Utrecht
What is John von Neumann's nationality?
Hungarian
How many papers did Von Neumann publish?
150
Von Neumann's study of what preceded the discovery of DNA?
mathematical analysis of the structure of self-replication
With whom did Von Neumann work on the Manhattan Project?
J. Robert Oppenheimer and Edward Teller
Where was Von Neumann born?
Budapest
In what year was Von Neumann's father elevated to nobility?
1913
At what age did schooling begin in Hungary?
ten
What did Von Neumann enter in 1911?
Lutheran Fasori Evangelikus Gimnázium
At what age did Von Neumann begin to study advance calculus?
15
What career path was decided upon for Von Neuman?
chemical engineer
Where did Von Neumann begin to lecture in 1928?
University of Berlin
When did Von Neumann get married?
New Year's Day in 1930
In what year was Von Neumann offered a lifetime professorship? 
1933
What type of "off color" humor did Von Neumann especially enjoy?
limericks
What mathematician was Von Nemann's closest friend?
Stanislaw Ulam
What caused a setback in naive set theory at the beginning of 20th century?
Russell's paradox
What is the method to demonstrate that no contradictions were created by the addition of axiom of foundation?
method of inner models
What is a proper class?
a class which does not belong to other classes
In 1930 who gave a strongly negative answer to Von Neuman's approach to the axiomatic system of theory of sets?
Kurt Gödel
How long did it take von Neumann to figure a response to theory of incompleteness?
less than a month
What field did Von Neuman establish?
continuous geometry.
In what way did von Neumann make spectacular contributions to measure theory?
In a series of famous papers
What is often considered more important than the results of von Neumann's papers?
methods of argument he employed
What is von Neumann algebra?
algebra of bounded operators on a Hilbert space that is closed in the weak operator topology and contains the identity operator
What did von Neumann work on in 1937 - 39?
lattice theory
What type of axioms were used by von Neumann in his lattice work?
novel axioms
Who established the framework for quantum mechanics?
Von Neumann
What are the physics of quantum mechanics?
mathematics of Hilbert spaces and linear operators acting on them
Von Neumann's abstract treatment allowed him to work on what foundational issue?
determinism versus non-determinism
What results came from von Neumann's deep analysis of the measurement problem?
physical universe could be made subject to the universal wave function
With whom did von Neuman work on a paper in 1936 that introduce quantum logic?
Garrett Birkhoff
What year was game theory established?
1928
What is the difference of quantum disjunction from classic?
can be true even when both of the disjuncts are false
What is optimal strategy?
minimize the maximum loss for each player
How did von Neumann raise the level of economics?
several stunning publications
In von Neumann's model what does p represent?
p represents the prices of the goods
What were von Neumann's model an example of?
viewed as a special case of linear programming
When did von Neumann's interest in economics begin?
When lecturing at Berlin in 1928 and 1929
What was the new method of linear programming that von Neumann suggested?
homogeneous linear system of Gordan
When did von NEumann establish mean square ratio?
1941
The algorithm defining artificial viscosity is a fundamental contribution to what area?
numerical hydrodynamics
What principal contribution did von Neumann make to atomic bomb?
concept and design of the explosive lenses needed to compress the plutonium core
what change was made when shortage of uranium 235 was apparent?
implosive lens project was greatly expanded
What other people worked with von Neumann on target selection?
four other scientists and various military personnel
On what day was the first atomic blast?
July 16, 1945
With whom did von Neumann collaborate for further development of the hydrogen bomb?
Klaus Fuchs
In 1950 von Neumann became a consultant for what organization?
Weapons Systems Evaluation Group
In what year did von Neumann become commissioner of the AEC?
1955
What was the purpose of top secret ICBM committee?
decide on the feasibility of building an ICBM large enough to carry a thermonuclear weapon
What was MAD?
mutual assured destruction
Why did von Neumann join government work?
felt that, if freedom and civilization were to survive, it would have to be because the US would triumph over totalitarianism
Who was the inventor of the merge-sort algorithm?
Von Neumann
Where were the computations for hydrogen bomb worked out?
von Neumann's digital computers
What nullified patent claims of EDVAC designers?
von Neumann wrote an incomplete First Draft of a Report
What was the speed difference with new ENIAC?
new ENIAC ran at one-sixth the speed
When was stochastic computing introduced?
1953
On what computer was the first numerical weather forecast produced?
ENIAC
How quickly was von Neumann able to complete math in his head?
stunned other mathematicians
How did Lothar Wolfgang Nordheim describe von Neumann? 
"fastest mind I ever met",
What did Herman Goldstone write about von NEumann?
One of his remarkable abilities was his power of absolute recall.
What did Nobel Laureate Hans Bethe think of von NEumann's ability?
I have sometimes wondered whether a brain like von Neumann's does not indicate a species superior to that of man
In what year was von Neumann diagnosed with cancer?
1955
Who administered the last sacrament to von Neumann?
Father Strittmatter
The agreement between the Nazis and the Soviets split what countries up?
Romania, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, and Finland
The regions of Białystok, Galicia and Przemyśl were returned to what country after world war II?
Polish state
Lenin acknowledged the independence of which countries?
Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland.
Who was to blame for communism and capitalism?
ethnic Jews
What countries prevented the Soviets from joining the Munich Conference?
UK and France
During conflict, what would prevent transport of materials?
British blockade
Why did the Soviet government fear the governments of France and Britain?
capitalist encirclements
Who predicted soviet aggression in the Baltic region?
Britain
Which Soviet Foreign Minister lost his job because of his favorable attitude towards the west?
Maxim Litvinov
In what city did the tripartite military talks occur during the month of August?
Moscow
What was the German-Soviet dividing line in regards to annexing Poland?
Vistula river
Which Foreign Minister would agree to meet with Stalin on to sign a secret agreement? 
Ribbentrop
What country held the city Vilnius prior to the inter-war period? 
Lithuania
Which diplomat leaked information about the secret agreements?
Hans von Herwarth
Who downplayed the contrast and recent past history between German and the Soviets?
Molotov
What was the response of  Kliment Voroshilov in regards to further conversations with Britain and France?
no useful purpose
How did the Russians communicate to the Germans in regards to bombing civilians trying to flee cities?
signals broadcast by the Soviet radio
Why did Soviets create fake elections in Poland?
legitimization of Soviet annexation of eastern Poland
After amending the joint agreement, who received the larger portion of Lithuania?
Germany
The Soviets took over and setup a fake government in what country?
Finnish Democratic Republic
Who invaded the countries of Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia? 
Soviet NKVD
How many days after France sued for peace did the Romanians meet the requests of the USSR?
6
Who were the “intelligentia?” 
Polish nobles, teachers, social workers, priests, judges and political activists
How many Jews were forced to live within the Warsaw Ghetto? 
380,000
How much did the transfer of the Lithuanian Strip cost the Soviet Union?
7.5 million dollars (31.5 million Reichsmark)
Who was part of Hollywood Ten?
Herbert Biberman
The western communists new rhetoric was that the war was? 
the war was unjust and imperialist
Who wanted war with the Soviet Union?
English–French war bloc
Who refused a German-Soviet peace plan?
Britain and France
What was the title of Molotov’s report called?
On the Foreign Policy of the Soviet Union
How much more expansive was the newest trade agreement?
was over four times larger
What did the Germans use to avoid British blockades?
a submarine base
Who wanted to know the moment an anti-german bloc was to form?
Ribbentrop
Who stopped the trade because of a disagreement involving Romania?
Soviet Union
What countries agreed to a tripartisan agreement?
Germany entered a Tripartite Pact with Japan and Italy
Who was planning an invasion of the Soviet Union?
Hitler
Where did the German attack on Soviet forces occur?
Soviet positions in eastern Poland
How many pages of secret documents were microfilmed?
9,800 pages
Who printed the secret German-Soviet treaty in Britain?
the Manchester Guardian
What year was Joseph Stalin’s version of the pact published?
1948
Who created an investigation into whether or not the Soviet-German Pact happened?
Mikhail Gorbachev, Alexander Nikolaevich Yakovlev
Who was ordered to remove the Jews from the Ministry?
Molotov
Edward Carr believes that in a war between Germany and the Soviet Union, who else would have been participating?
the Western Powers would already be involved
Who was skeptical of Stalin’s policies?
Viktor Suvorov
What was a capacitor originally known as?
a condenser
When does an electric field develop across the dielectric?
When there is a potential difference across the conductors
Who first discovered the basic properties of capacitors?
Ewald Georg von Kleist
Who was the first person to connect several Leyden jars in parallel?
Daniel Gralath
Besides porcelain, paper and mica, what other non conductive material was used as an insulator? 
glass
Who invented the first electrolytic capacitor?
Charles Pollak
What are electric double-layer capacitors called today?
Supercapacitors
What type of area is between the two conductors in a capacitor?
a non-conductive region
What is the definition of the current I(t) through any component in an electric circuit?
the rate of flow of a charge Q(t) passing through it
In an ideal model of a capacitor, what is the value that describes the permittivity of the dielectric?
permittivity ε
What is a function of the amount of dielectric, the strength of dielectric and its permittivity?
The maximum energy
What characteristic can leakage current and parasitic effects be assumed to have in the equation for a realistic capacitor?
can be assumed to be linear
What order is the breakdown field strength for air dielectric capacitors of?
of the order 2 to 5 MV/m
What name is given to the AC component of an applied source having either constant or alternating frequency?
Ripple current
What value of some capacitors decreases with age?
The capacitance
What is the effect called when capacitors absorb sound waves?
microphonic effect
What is one type of circuit in which voltage and current reversal are affected by damping?
DC circuits
What percentage of voltage reversal does an AC circuit experience?
100% voltage reversal
After discharging and disconnecting a capacitor, what causes it to develop a voltage?
hysteresis in the dielectric
With what value is a resistor in parallel with a capacitor equal to?
Leakage
What do many capacitors contain that raises the capacitance?
a dielectric spacer
What benefit is offered by solid state paper capacitors?
relatively high voltage performance
What is one type of metal which the conducting plates in electrolytic capacitors are commonly made of?
aluminum
What is the main feature of a supercapacitor?
Supercapacitors store large amounts of energy
Under what condition might the polarization of the dielectric be unable to follow the voltage?
driven with a time-varying voltage that changes rapidly
How is the complex impedance with dielectric represented mathematically?
Z(ω)
What order of magnitude of capacitance is suitable for capacitors comprised of ceramic disks with metallic coatings?
microfarads and less
What is one type of configuration in which a capacitor may have its connecting leads organized?
axially
Since when have inexpensive ceramic disc capacitors existed?
the 1930s
What do mechanically controlled variable capacitors enable to be modified?
the plate spacing
How do larger capacitors present their electrical characteristics?
display the actual capacitance together with the unit (for example, 220 μF)
Why are capacitors connected in parallel with the power circuits of many devices and large systems?
to provide a "clean" power supply for signal or control circuits
In what scenario are capacitors used for power factor correction?
In electric power distribution
What happens to the current when an inductive circuit is opened?
the current through the inductance collapses quickly
What is the main winding on a squirrel cage motor capable of withstanding?
a rotational motion on the rotor
How much energy could a capacitor in a disposable camera contain?
over 15 joules of energy
What could cause the failure of a capacitor?
when subjected to voltages or currents beyond their rating
What are natural and social sciences a subcategory of?
The history of science
Who coined the word "scientist"?
William Whewell
What replaced false beliefs?
true theories
The advancement of agriculture made what possible?
a surplus of food
Which civilization advanced in astronomy, mathematics, and medicine?
Ancient Egypt
Where did the Mesopotamian people originate from?
Sumer
Who wrote on the clay tablets in Babylonian astronomy?
scribes
Which era was marked by investigating the universe?
Classical Antiquity
What are early Greek philosophers known as?
pre-Socratics
Plato and Aristotle are known for systematically discussing what?
natural philosophy
Anatomy, zoology, geography, and studies like them are considered what?
factual knowledge
Who created the sun-centered model of the solar system?
Aristarchus of Samos
Who wrote the book Elements?
Euclid
What classification guide did Theophrastus create?
the first taxonomy
The Indus Valley Civilization was the first to have traces of what?
mathematical knowledge
When did Aryabhata live?
476-550
Which text was the first to have concepts of astronomy in it?
the Vedas
Where are the Neolithic graveyards?
Pakistan
What method did early Chinese mathematicians use to calculate?
a positional decimal system on counting boards
What observations in astronomy did China record?
sunspots
What was invented in 132 CE?
a seismometer
Who discovered the idea of true north?
Shen Kuo
Who was the Needham Research Institute named after?
Joseph Needham
What was a consequence of the Roman Empire being divided?
the Western Roman Empire lost contact with much of its past
What method did Muslim scientists use more than the Greeks?
experiment
What was Muhammad ibn Musa al-Khwarizmi's profession?
mathematician
Whose work did Al-Battani improve?
Hipparchus
Who was most influential in Islamic philosophy?
Ibn Sina
When were medieval universities created?
the 12th century
What language did the important scientific works get translated into for universities and monasteries?
Latin
Who pioneered parsimony?
William of Ockham
What year did the Black Death occur?
1348
The focus on learning in the 12th century is referred to as what?
Scholasticism
What was the Scientific Revolution?
a period of major scientific advancements
The Age of Reason made way for which movement?
Age of Enlightenment
Which movement took place during the 19th century?
The Romantic Movement
Which movement is considered to be a dividing line between ancient thought and classical physics?
The scientific revolution
What work was printed by Isaac Newton in 1687?
the Principia Mathematica
What science subject explains anomalous results?
quantum theories
Who discovered nuclear fission?
Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann
When did modern chemistry come into existence?
the sixteenth through the eighteenth centuries
What scientific act is Friedrich Wohler known for?
The synthesis of urea
What was the work of Theophrastus on rocks called?
Peri lithōn
What happened to geology during the Scientific Revolution?
individual theorists made important contributions
How old did biblical scholars think the Earth was?
6,000 years
What changed about the way geology was implemented during the 19th century?
shifted from description and classification to attempts to understand how the surface of the Earth had changed
What was Ignac Fulop Semmelweis' profession?
physician
Which scientist championed the idea of evolution?
Charles Darwin
The discipline of ecology is a combination of what two subjects?
Darwinian evolution and Humboldtian biogeography
What larger group does political science belong to?
social sciences
Where did studying politics originate?
Ancient Greece
Who are Kautilya and Vishnugupta usually grouped with?
Chāṇakya
What allowed political studies to spread?
the fall of the Western Roman Empire
What new subject surface at the end of the 18th century?
Historical linguistics
Who wrote An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations?
Adam Smith
What did John Maynard Keynes want to separate?
microeconomics and macroeconomics
When was Wealth of Nations written?
1776
What was the beginning of psychology classified as?
a scientific enterprise
What is the group that human psychology belongs to?
cognitive science
What was Ibn Khaldun's profession?
scientific systematic sociologist
Who was the major proponent of American sociology?
Talcott Parsons
What science is based on linguistics, mathematics, and engineering?
Computer science
What text is the foundation of the study of the history of science?
History of the Inductive Sciences
What is the large question that the history of science answers?
what science is
What did Humboldtian science aim to do?
combining scientific field work with the age of Romanticism sensitivity, ethics and aesthetic ideals
Where did the social aspect of science originate?
Thomas Kuhn's The Structure of Scientific Revolutions in 1962
What did Scientific Knowledge and its Social Problems describe the scientific community as?
a social construct
How many people speak Czech?
10 million
When did the Soviet Union occupy Czechoslovakia?
1968
How much do the lexicons of Czech and Slovak differ, according to on study?
by 80 percent
Who called themselves "Czechoslavs"?
a group of 19th-century scholars
When did a tribe of Slavs arrive in Central Europe?
sixth century AD
How did Old Czech's use of cases differ from modern usage?
did not yet have a vocative case or an animacy distinction
What type of orthography did Old Czech lack?
standard
What was Czech civilization called back in the day?
Bohemia
How many years as Czech continued to evolve and gain in regional importance?
hundreds
When do linguists agree modern Czech originated?
the eighteenth century
What did the Czechs as a people gain during the mid-18th century?
widespread national pride
What was the professions of Joseph Dobrovský?
linguist and historian
What is the official language of the Czech republic?
Czech
Czechs immigrated from Europe to the U.S. primary from 1848 to when?
1914
How many regional dialects does Czech have?
several
What are the dialects spoken in Moravia and Silesia known as?
Moravian
How many basic vowel phonemes does Czech contain?
ten
In Czech, what are loanwords from other languages associated with?
high culture
Czech's word order is flexible because it uses what to convey word function in a sentence?
grammatical case
What is the sentence structure of Czech syntax?
subject–verb–object
How many grammatical cases can nouns and adjectives be declined into in Czech?
seven
How many genders does Czech distinguish?
three
What are inflected for number in Czech?
Nouns
What do Slavic languages tend to do to their verbs?
marks
How many ways can a verb in an aspect pair differ?
two ways
What verb form is found in Czech dictionaries?
infinitive
What language has one of the most phonemic orthographies of all European languages?
Czech
What do Czech typographical features not associated with phonetics tend to resemble?
those of most Latin European languages
What does Digimon stand for?
Digital Monsters
When did Digimon first appear?
1997
What kind of toy were the original Digimon?
virtual pet toy
How do digimon evolve?
Digimental
Are there any circumstances under which a digimon cannot be reborn?
if a Digimon's data is completely destroyed, they will die
What companies were responsible for the creation and subsequent release of the original digimon?
planned by WiZ and released by Bandai
What is the world in which the digimon live?
a manifestation of Earth's communication network
How many series have aired since 2011?
six series
When did the first digimon series begin airing in japan?
March 7, 1999 in Japan
When did the second series of Digimon air?
April 2, 2000
When did the third Digimon series begin?
April 1, 2001
When did the fourth series of Digimon begin?
April 7, 2002
How long did Digimon stay off the air before returning?
three-year hiatus
How long after the 5th season did the next one start?
Three and a quarter years
When was the sequel announcement for the third arc?
August 17, 2011
How long after Digimon Fusion was a new series announced?
30 months
How soon after did another series start after the Digimon Adventure 02?
three years
How many Digimon movies have been released in Japan?
nine Digimon movies
What magazine were given their own original stories of Digimon?
UK comics
What did the Digimon series end up having lots of during the series?
video games
In what year did Bandai post information about a reboot on his website?
2011
How long does it take glaciers to form?
many years, often centuries
How much glacial ice is found surrounding the poles?
99%
Do Earth's lakes or glaciers hold the most freshwater?
glaciers
At what dimensions are glaciers called ice sheets or continental glaciers?
50,000 km2 (19,000 sq mi)
What are glaciers called that end in the sea?
Tidewater glaciers
From where is the temperature of a glacier measured?
base alone
Under what circumstances do glaciers form?
where the accumulation of snow and ice exceeds ablation
What characteristics determine glacial zones?
surface snowpack and melt conditions
Why are the tops of glaciers rigid?
they are under low pressure
Which crevasses form on the edge of the glacier?
Marginal crevasses
In what area of Greenland can glaciers move 20-30m per day?
Jakobshavn Isbræ
What is a glacial surge?
periods of very rapid advancement
How far does a glacier have to move to cause glacial earthquakes?
one km per year
What are ogives?
alternating wave crests and valleys that appear as dark and light bands of ice on glacier surfaces
How many countries contain glaciers?
fifty
Do glaciers require permanent snow or only temporary coverage?
permanent snow cover
Which areas in Antartica are considered polar deserts?
Banks Island, and the McMurdo Dry Valleys
What cause glacial stiations?
large boulders that carve long scratches in the bedrock
When are glacial moraines visible?
after the glacier has retreated
What shape do mountain valleys have pre-glacation?
characteristic "V" shape
On which side is a cirque opened?
the side that descends into the valley
What is another name for roche moutonnee?
"sheepback" rock
Where is post-glacial rebound occuring most?
Scandinavia and the Great Lakes region of North America.
What is considered the minimal energy increment of a hypothetical oscillator?
value E
What does classical statistics mechanics not define the value of?
h
What are common things like furniture and stationary objects actually made of?
particles
What type of radiation was Planck studying in the late 19th century?
black-body
What do scientists assume black body radiation is?
thermal
Before Planck, it was assumed that the energy of a body could take on what value?
any
Einstein and what other two individuals revisited the black-body problem in 1905?
Rayleigh and Jeans
Who first observed the photoelectric effect?
Alexandre Edmond Becquerel
Before Einstein, electromagnetic radiation was considered to behave as what?
a wave
What is emitted as a result of the photoelectric effect?
photoelectrons
Who introduced the first quantized model of the atom?
Niels Bohr
Who introduced the reduced Planck constant?
Bohr
 What measurable value obeys a similar rule of angular momentum?
time vs. energy
What is the unit of magentic properties of the electron?
Bohr magneton
How was the Planck constant calculated in the early 20th century?
the Planck constant could be determined by examining the spectrum of a black-body radiator or the kinetic energy of photoelectrons
What is a main practical difficulty in determining n?
the two most accurate methods, the watt balance and the X-ray crystal density method, do not appear to agree with one another
Other than the X-ray crystal density method, other methods rely on what two effects?
the Josephson effect and the quantum Hall effect
What is a watt balance?
an instrument for comparing two powers, one of which is measured in SI watts and the other of which is measured in conventional electrical units
The gyromagnetic ratio is the constant proportion between the magentic field and what?
the frequency ν of nuclear magnetic resonance
How many methods of measuring the gyromagnetic ratio are there?
there are two methods of measuring the value
What is the Faraday constant?
the charge of one mole of electrons
What is the primary method for determining the Avogadro constant?
The X-ray crystal density method
What measurement is deemed most important to redefine in terms of physical constants?
the kilogram
Where would the decision to change the definition of the kilogram have occured at the earliest?
the General Conference on Weights and Measures in 2011
What is the largest cable company in the world by revenue?
Comcast Corporation
What are some of the cable TV networks owned by Comcast?
E! Entertainment Television, the Golf Channel, and NBCSN
What is the largest criticism leveled by consumers against Comcast
customer satisfaction
Who is the current head of Comcast?
Brian L. Roberts
Besides customer problems, what other area is Comcast often criticized over?
employee relations
What is Comcast's stance on organized labor?
anti-union
What magazine listed Comcast as one of its top places to work?
CableFAX
What was Comcast's share value in 1999?
$8.19
What was Comcast's lobbying budget in 2013?
$18.8 million
When did Ralph Roberts get into the cable TV business?
1963
How many paying customers did Comcast have in 1994?
3.5 million
What was Comcast's telecommunication business prior to 1999?
Comcast Cellular
When did Comcast acquire the cable assets of AT&T Broadband?
2001
What media conglomerate did Comcast try to buy in 2004?
The Walt Disney Company
Comcast joined with what media company to acquire a movie studio in 2005?
Sony Pictures Entertainment
What was the name of the interface front-end introduced by Comcast in 2007?
a dashboard called SmartZone
What bankrupt company did Comcast partner with another broadband provider to acquire in 2005?
Adelphia Cable
What media conglomerate did Comcast begin preliminary talks to buy in 2009?
NBCUniversal
On what date was Comcast's purchase of controlling interest in NBCUniversal reported?
December 3, 2009
What publication originally reported a potential deal between Comcast and Time Warner?
the Los Angeles Times
Who was the head of the FCC at the time of Comcast's proposed purchase of Time Warner Cable?
Tom Wheeler
Disney and Comcast joined forces to allow Comcast to air what sports networks?
ESPNU and ESPN3
What is the name of Comcast's channel available to subscribers in east coast markets?
Comcast Network
Who was the founder of Philadelphia sports corporation Spectator?
Ed Snider
What organization rated Comcast's customer service the worst in the country in 2004 and 2007?
American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI)
What organization gave Comcast an "F" rating in 2010?
Corporate Library
What name was listed on Comcast customer Ricardo Brown's invoice in January, 2015?
"Asshole Brown"
What bacterium causes tuberculosis infection?
Mycobacterium tuberculosis
How much of the entire population of the planet is estimated to be carrying tuberculosis?
One-third
Which lobes of the lungs are more often affected by TB?
upper lung lobes
What's the medical term for TB when it spreads from the lungs to other parts of the body?
extrapulmonary tuberculosis
The uniqueness of Mycobacterium tuberculosis is due to its high level of what type of molecule?
lipid
What's another word for "sputum"?
phlegm
Which mycobacterium that causes TB can often be found in unpasteurized milk?
M. bovis
If you're around someone with active TB, what's the chance you'll contract it expressed as a percentage?
22%
What specific part of the lungs marks the start of tuberculosis infection?
pulmonary alveoli
What two-word phrase is used for the main part of the lungs infected by TB?
Ghon focus
What specific type of disease is TB?
granulomatous inflammatory
What process replaces tissue damaged by TB?
scarring
Is active TB difficult or easy to diagnose by patients' symptoms alone?
difficult
What result might someone who has received a TB vaccination get from the Mantoux test?
false-positive
For about how long does full immunity from the TB vaccine last?
ten years
What group heads up the Global Plan to Stop Tuberculosis?
Stop TB Partnership
What part of the mycobacterial cell makes tuberculosis more difficult to treat?
wall
If a person has TB that's resistant to rifampicin and isoniazid, which type of the disease do they have?
MDR-TB
As immunosuppression goes up in tuberculosis cases, what risk rises with it? 
reactivation
At any given time, about how much of all the people in the world has M. tuberculosis?
one-third
What infectious disease causes more deaths than tuberculosis?
HIV/AIDS
Out of every 100,000 people in Swaziland in 2007, how many were infected with tuberculosis?
1,200
What animal was found with 17,000-year-old damage from tuberculosis?
bison
Who discovered M. tuberculosis?
Robert Koch
What was tuberculosis called in 19th-century England?
consumption
When did the incidence of TB in Europe reach its highest point?
1800s
What member of leadership at the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria called TB a "pandemic"?
Mark Dybul
What groups might help tuberculosis patients share with and support each other?
TB clubs
What vaccine are researchers trying to improve on?
BCG
What organization did the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation donate $280 million to?
Aeras Global TB Vaccine Foundation
What drug in the running to treat multi drug resistant TB has already gotten FDA approval?
Bedaquiline
Outside of employment, what is the other main issue that affirmative action focuses on?
education
What is another example aside from racial quotes of affirmative action for collegiate admissions?
gender quotas
When did the Reconstruction Era end?
1877
In which document did the term "affirmative action" first appear?
National Labor Relations Act
Who was the true backer of the cause of affirmative action?
Harold L. Ickes
What group was established in response to Executive Order 9808?
President's Committee on Civil Rights
The "To Secure These Rights" findings wanted desegregation of which institution?
Armed Forces
Who was the first President to address the NAACP?
Truman
What day did Truman mandate the end of discrimination in the federal government?
July 26
Which year was Eisenhower elected President?
1952
Who criticized President Eisenhower during the 1960 presidential election?
John F. Kennedy
When did President Kennedy issue Executive Order 11114?
June 1963
Which Executive Order first contained the phrase "affirmative action"?
Executive Order 10925
Who had issues with JFK's proposal?
NAACP
Which piece of legislation quickly followed President Kennedy's assassination?
Civil Rights Act
Which section of the legislation was considered the most controversial?
Title VII
Who followed in Johnson's footsteps in terms of ensuring equal opportunity?
his successor Nixon
In terms of advancement, what happened to the progression of affirmative action after the Nixon administration?
became less prevalent
What kind of classification was subject to strict scrutiny?
racial
Which case concerning White and Hispanic firefighters was heard by the Supreme Court in 2009?
Ricci v. DeStefano
Which President declared that discrimination is contrary to the Constitutional principles of the United States?
Kennedy
Other than being race and gender based, what did believers in affirmative action also feel that the system discriminated against?
class
What major event preceded the growth of the divide in education between White and Black Americans?
end of World War II
Who conducted a study about the origins of "Latinos"?
Dr. Paul Brest
Which groups can be categorized as Native Americans?
people who lived in North America before European settlement
What form of discrimination did early Asian immigrants experience?
not having the ability to become naturalized citizens
What is one of the issues with affirmative action?
inherently unequal
Which President made their stance on affirmative action clear in 1995?
Bill Clinton
Where was the National Conference of State Legislatures held in 2014?
Washington D.C.
What does AAUP stand for?
American Association of University Professors
Who claims that artificially raising minority students into schools has a negative effect on them?
Richard Sander
Which idea is the controversy of affirmative action primarily based upon?
class inequality
Where were the Italian American professors employed that asked to be added as an affirmative action category?
City University of New York
What book did Frederick Lynch author?
Invisible Victims: White Males and the Crisis of Affirmative Action
Which book did Terry Eastland write?
From Ending Affirmative Action: The Case for Colorblind Justice
What is a definition of reverse discrimination?
a policy or practice in which members of a majority are discriminated against in favor of a historically disadvantaged group or minority
What is a typical argument in favor of affirmative action?
compensation argument
Other than failing to achieve its goal, what else do opponents to affirmative action claim it has?
undesirable side-effects
Where are racial preferences highlighted the most in the United States?
admission to universities and other forms of higher education
What does the racial preferences debate indicate about universities and colleges?
competing notions of the mission of colleges
What did the ruling in Hopwood v Texas set a precedent for in terms of admission policies?
banning any use of race in school admissions
What was going on at Harvard University during the 2003 - 04 academic year?
a panel discussion
To which university does Richard H. Sander belong?
UCLA
What area of study did professor Mark Long have a degree in?
economics
With which organization did Li file a civil rights complaint?
Office for Civil Rights
Which University had a lawsuit filed against it?
University of Texas
On which date were lawsuits filed against Harvard and Chapel Hill?
November 17, 2014
How many Asian organizations were involved in filing the federal complaints?
more than 60
Who is the competition open too?
any eligible club
What rounds are the qualifiers?
first six rounds
What do winners receive? 
the FA Cup trophy
When was the laws of the Game of Asscociation Football published?
1863
Was competition suspended due to the first world war? 
competition was suspended due to the First World War
Is the competition open to anyone? 
The competition is open to any club down to Level 10 of the English football league system
Does anyone ever miss a tournament? 
It is very rare for top clubs to miss the competition
May Welsh clubs enter the competition? 
Welsh sides that play in English leagues are eligible,
Has the number of entrants stayed the same? 
The number of entrants has increased greatly in recent years
When is the final?
May
When does the final take place? 
The final is normally held the Saturday after the Premier League season finishes in May.
Do clubs replay each other?
Until the 1990s further replays would be played until one team was victorious.
What is the cup called now?
Cup Winners' Cup
Where are the semi finals played?
e semi-finals have been played exclusively at the rebuilt Wembley Stadium
Where is the FA cup held today?
In 2003 the FA took the decision to permanently use the new Wembley for semi-finals
Where is the final played now? 
The final has been played at the rebuilt Wembley Stadium
Where do the majority of FA cup finals take place? 
predominantly in London, and mainly at the Kennington Oval and then Crystal Palace.
Is the use of artificial turf allowed? 
The FA permitted artificial turf (3G) pitches in all rounds of the competition from the 2014–15 edition and beyond.
How many parts does the trophy come in? 
The trophy comes in three parts
Is the cup engraved for the winner? 
The name of the winning team is engraved on the silver band around the base
When did people start presenting the trophy after the game? 
The tradition of presenting the trophy immediately after the game did not start until the 1882 final
How claims to have stolen the FA cup? 
80 year old career criminal Henry (Harry) James Burge claimed to have committed the theft
Who was the long-serving president of the FA cup?
Lord Kinnaird
is the Fa cup sponsered? 
Since the start of the 1994–95 season, the FA Cup has been sponsored.
Do people look forward to Cinderella matches? 
where lower ranked teams beat higher placed opposition, known as "giant killings", is much anticipated by the public
When was the football league founded? 
The Football League was founded in 1888
Who is the lowest rank to play in the  third round proper?
Chasetown
How many clubs have won the fa cup as part of a league cup double? 
Seven clubs have won the FA Cup as part of a League and Cup double
Has the final been played by a two clubs outside of the top divisions? 
The final has never been contested by two teams from outside the top division
Who used to brodcast the matches on the radio? 
the BBC
Who had FA cup coverage from 1988-1997?
From 1988 to 1997, the BBC and Sky Sports had coverage of the FA Cup
Who took over the package from Sentana?
ESPN took over the package Setanta
When did Stadtrepublik become a part of Alsace?
4 January 1798
Which three territories make up the Upper Rhine?
Alsatian, Alemannian, Swabian, Swiss
What was considered a common practice in during the Holy Roman Empire?
fragmentation and reincorporations among a number of feudal secular and ecclesiastical lordships
About when did Alsace lose its prosperity?
14th century
What were the names of the first two rivers France aggressively went to while expanding eastward?
Rhône and Meuse
In what year was Upper Alsace sold to the Archduke Sigismund?
1469
When did Strasbourg accept Protestantism?
1523
When did the Habsburgs  sell the Sundgau territory to France?
1646
In what year did the division of Alsace take place?
1789
Which two countries sought to crush the nascent republic?
Austria and Prussia
What was the population of Alsace in 1846?
1,067,000
What was the population of Alsace in 1790?
22,500
Which country defeated the French in 1871?
Kingdom of Prussia
What did Aslations do to avoid conflict amongst themselves during the first World War?
served as sailors
What year was Alsace-Lorraine occupied by Germany?
1940
Which conservative leader in 2007 received the best score during the second round of elections?
Nicolas Sarkozy
Which group or religion dominates the Aslatian population?
Roman Catholic
What were landowners also known as that had a right to decide which religion was allowed on their property?
local lords
What is the name of the historical flag of Alsace?
Rot-un-Wiss
Around when did the Annexation of Alsace occur?
17th century
Between what time period did the reannexation of Germany occur?
1940–1945
What was the name of the Memorandum that allowed German teaching in Alsace schools to become more official?
Circulaire sur la langue et la culture régionales en Alsace
Which two dialects were banned from public life?
Alsatian and Standard German
What does the French constitution state for the language in Aslace?
French alone is the official language
In Alsatian, what does Sauerkraut mean?
sour cabbage
What is the meaning of the name Aslatia in English?
a lawless place" or "a place under no jurisdiction
What is currently being planed west of Strasbourg? 
new dual carriageway
What individuals subscribe to a doctrine that baptism should be performed only for professing believers?
Baptists
When was the earliest church labeled "Baptist" traced to?
1609
Who outlined the four main views of Baptist origins?
Bruce Gourley
Modern Baptist churches trace their history to what movement?
English Separatist movement
When did the Church of England separate from the Roman Catholic Church?
During the Protestant Reformation
Historians trace the earliest Baptist church back to when?
1609
Smyth wrote a tract titled what?
"The Character of the Beast," or "The False Constitution of the Church."
Who thought their self-baptism was invalid?
Smyth
When did John Spilsbury promote the strict practice of immersion?
1638
Who was thought to be influenced by continental Anabaptists?
early seventeenth-century Baptists
Who founded the earliest Baptist church in North America?
Roger Williams and John Clarke
Missionary work began in what Canadian colony?
Nova Scotia
When did Baptist congregations split over slavery?
May 1845
What is the largest fellowship without control?
Southern Baptist Convention
Baptists are defined by what?
doctrine
Beliefs about one God; the virgin birth; miracles; atonement for sins through the death, burial, and bodily resurrection of Jesus are examples of what?
Shared doctrines
"Crisis" comes from a Greek word meaning what?
to decide
When did Baptists become embroiled in the controversy over slavery in the United States?
Leading up to the American Civil War
When did black Baptists began to organize separate churches, associations and mission agencies?
As early as the late 18th century
Where did Baptist missionaries take an active role in the anti-slavery movement?
the Caribbean
When did the Southern Baptist Convention vote to adopt a resolution renouncing its racist roots?
20 June 1995
What sought to reset the ecclesiastical separation which had characterized the old Baptist churches?
Southern Baptist Landmarkism
The Southern Baptist Convention adhered to what as its official position?
conservative theology
What does child labour deprive children of?
deprives children of their childhood
What year did sub-saharan Africa have the highest rates of child labour?
2010
Was there a period when child labour was essential?
pre-industrial societies
On average how many weekly hours did a domestic servant put in?
80
How many families were without a bread winner?
one-third
During the 19th century was there any advocates for the working children?
Lord Shaftesbury
When were young boys employed in the glass making industries?
early 20th century
Where was photographer Lewis Hine employed?
National Child Labor Committee
Why would families perfer labour done at the home as opposed to the factory?
because it allowed them to generate income while taking care of household duties.
What time were home manufactoring activities for children taking place?
year round
Does child labour exist in the 21st century?
Child labour is still common
What country has the highest percentage of child labour?
Africa
Where is present day child labour stats unclear?
China
According to the Maplecroft Child Labour Index how many countries post risks for child labour?
76
What is the main reason for children today to be in the work force?
nothing better to do
Throughout European history was child labour seen as a positive?
Some view that work is good for the character-building and skill development of children
Biggeri and Mehrotra studied primarily Asia nations including India, Pakistan, Indonesia, Philippines and what other country?
Thailand
Were young apprentices hired for pay?
without pay
Where did the British turn a blind eye to child labour?
Hong Kong
Where do African children find their first jobs?
home
Where did children from urban areas primarily work?
street vendors, washing cars, helping in construction sites, weaving clothing, and sometimes even working as exotic dancers
What country is still an issue today with regards to child labour?
Africa
In 1888 what country were child convicts sent to the most?
Australia
When was Brazil colonized?
April 22, 1550
What is the min working age in Brazil?
fourteen
In 1999 how many children were working illegally in Brazil?
2.55 million
If not forced why did children work?
to help feed and support the family
What type of support did child give to their families by working?
financially
What became an issue for the working child?
illiteracy
When was the UN General Assembly of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights enacted?
1966
When did the English East India Company defeat Siraj-ud-Daula?
23 June 1757
How much of the world's child labour does India's workers contribute to?
one-fourth
When did the Geneva Declaration of the Right of Children Act pass?
1924
When were students used as workers?
1950s
What former Soviet Union continued child labour programs?
Uzbekistan
What is Kaminfegerkinder?
chimney sweep children
What happened at Verdingkinder auctions?
children were handed over to the farmer asking the least amount of money
How many countries have signed the Worst Forms Convention 183 (C182)?
151
What did the United Nations take charge of with regards to child labour?
International Program on the Elimination of Child Labour (IPEC)
What did the United States pass in 2004?
amendment to the Fair Labour Standards Act of 1938
What happened in the European Union in 1996?
agreed to a number of exceptions for young people in its child labour laws
What does child labour do for adults?
leads to poor labour standards
What do some scholars agress is the "disease" of child labour?
poverty
What caused child labour to decrease in the 20th century?
economic development
Who reported Ivory Coast farmers usage of child labour?
UNICEF
What migrants worked on the Ivory Coast?
Malian
What industry was accused of profiting from child labour?
cocoa industry
What type of agreement was the 2001 Harkin-Engel Protocol?
voluntary
Who was the supplier of copper and cobalt to China?
Congo
What did the BBC say that Glencore used child labour for in 2012?
mining and smelting operations of Africa
What is another source of mining dangerous to children workers?
gold
How many minors did Agriprocessors employ?
57
Who accused H&M of using products made by child labours?
Anti-Slavery International and the Environmental Justice Foundation (EJF)
Who did the BBC in 2008 report as using child labor?
Primark
How many years was Primark investigated for?
three years
What do some feel may happen if child labour products were completely rejected by society as a whole?
may force these children to turn to more dangerous or strenuous professions, such as prostitution
Where did children work prior to the Industrial Revolution?
agriculture
Where is Thomas DeGregori from?
University of Houston
What is benefical work for children?
Domestic work
What is a natural process of child development?
Work
What hinders schooling for child labourers?
full-time work
How many main geographical sections make up North Carolina?
three
Pilot Mountain and South Mountains are located in what region of North Carolina?
Piedmont
The weatern part of North Carolina is part of what mountain range?
Appalachian Mountain range
What ocean influinces the climate of North Carolinas coastal plain?
Atlantic
What region of North Carolina has hotter summers and colder winters than the coast?
Piedmont
The Piedmont is colder than the coast in what season?
winter
What mountain range makes up the coolest part of North Carolina?
The Appalachian Mountains
Hoe often do hurricanes hit North Carolina?
once a decade
How many tornadoes does North Carolina have per year?
fewer than 20
During what time period did people buid earth mounds used for religious and ceremonial purposes?
Before A.D. 200
What was another name for Blackbeard?
Edward Teach
North carolina and Sounth Carolina together were known as what?
the Province of Carolina
What was the state capital of North Carolina in 1722?
Edenton
What state made the smallest contribution to the revolutionary war of any state?
North Carolina
After what year did cotton and tobacco become important crops in North Carolina?
After 1800
What year was the confederacy defeated?
1865
What political party was elected to the legislature and Governors office?
Democrats
What did the NC state legislature pass in 1899?
a new constitution
What political party Dominated NC after the confederacy?
Democratic
What programs created by FDR helped North Carolina during the Great Depression?
New Deal programs
What inhibited North Carolina for thousands of years?
prehistoric indigenous cultures
In the 16th century, where did Spanish explorers meet Mississipian cultureal people?
Joara
Who is the North Carolina state capital named for?
Sir Walter Raleigh
In 1650, settlers from what colony moved in to Albemarie Sound?
Virginia
After the Spanish, who were the first Europeans to settle North Carolina?
English colonists
Eastern North Carolina is also known as what?
Low Country
Most English colonists arrived as what?
indentured servants
What year did North Carolina instruct its delegates to vote for independence?
1776
Who met the British army as they moved north?
the Southern Division of the Continental Army and local militia
The Battle of Cowan's Ford was fought on the banks of what river?
Catawba
North Carolina was the twelth state to ratify what document?
the Constitution
Some of the free people of color migrated from what state during the 18th century?
Virginia
What was the name of the railroad that began construction in 1836?
Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad
In 1860, what percent of the North Carolina population were slaves?
33
What fraction of the population of North Carolina was enslaved in 1860?
one-third
Some North Carolinians still refused to support what after secession?
the Confederacy
What was the name of the Confederacys most famous army?
Army of Northern Virginia
Who was the first confederate soldier to be killed in the civil war?
Private Henry Wyatt
What is the religious name given to the part of the country that includes the Carolinas?
Bible Belt
Immigrants from latin America coming to North Carolina is increasing what?
ethnic and religious diversity
What is the Nickname given to North Carolina?
Old North State
North carolina voters have leaned republican since what year?
1976
Who was elected Governor of North Carolina in 2012?
Pat McCrory
What agency oversees public schools in North Carolina?
North Carolina Department of Public Instruction
What state opened the first public university in the United States?
North Carolina
Duke University and Shaw University are examples of what type of colleges that are in North Carolina?
private
How many major league sports franchises make North carolina home?
three
What Speedway in North Carolina hosts two Sprint cupseries races each year?
Charlotte Motor Speedway
How many colleges compete at the Division 1 level in North Carolina?
18
How many people go to see the Appalachian Mountains each year?
several million
What Hockey team is located in Raleigh?
Carolina Hurricanes
What is the center of North Carolina called?
The Piedmont Triad
Fishing, hunting, and birdwatching are what kind of activities that are provided in North Carolina?
recreational
Howmany state parks are in North Carolina?
34
What industry generates 1.2 billion in economic activity each year for North carolina?
nonprofit arts and culture
Where is SouthPark Mall located?
Charlotte
What is a culinary staple of North Carolina?
pork barbecue
Krispy kreme is a chain of what kind of stores?
doughnut
What international prize winning winery is located in North Carolina?
Noni Bacca Winery
Winston Salem is the headquarters of what tobacco Company?
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Where is Camp Lejeune located?
Jacksonville
What is the name of the last period of classical Japanese history?
Heian
What was the name of the period before the Heian era?
Nara
What noble family wielded power during the Heian period?
Fujiwara
Heian was Japan's capital for how many years?
1,000
What was the name of the possible descendants of Jōmon?
Emishi
In what year did Emperor Kanmu die?
806
In what century did the Soga family take the throne?
sixth
What type of property obtained legal status during the early Heian period?
shōen
What script was developed with parts of Chinese characters?
katakana
What became the aristocracy's primary occupation?
Land management
The early courts' military conscription broke down around what year?
792
Who had increased access to better military technology?
Shōen holders
Bushi formed new associations in what century?
tenth
Who was the first non-Fujiwara emperor since the ninth century?
Go-Sanjō
The decline of the Fujiwara's governmental power was filled by what?
In-no-cho
What member of the Fujiwara attempted to rebel in the mid-twelfth century?
Fujiwara no Yorinaga
What military commander gained power after the fall of the Minamoto clan?
Taira Kiyomori
What was the term used to describe military governors?
daimyos
What religion spread during the Heian period?
Buddhism
What artform became a mark of status in the courts?
poetry
What is the name of the Japanese national anthem?
Kimi ga Yo
What crop was a primary source of income during the Heian period?
rice
Buddhist temples in which two cities made use of the shoen system?
Heian-kyō and Nara
Which Total War game has an expansion set during the Heian period?
Shogun 2
When was the Origin of Species published?
24 November 1859
Which group of scientists began to support evolutionary ideas?
dissident anatomists
What section of the population was Darwin's book written for?
non-specialist readers
To what ancient philosopher did Darwin trace some of his evolutionary ideas?
Aristotle
Which group wanted to assuage fears that science was a threat to religious stability?
the Royal Society
What was the name of Charles Darwin's grandfather?
Erasmus Darwin
Whose work considered adaptation to be evidence of God's design?
William Paley's
When did Darwin begin attending university?
1825
What expedition did Darwin join in 1831?
Beagle expedition
Who showed that extinct South American fossils were related to living species?
Richard Owen
Which book did Darwin begin reading in 1838?
An Essay on the Principle of Population
Who did Darwin write his ideas to in 1842?
Lyell
What was the name of the anonymously published science book?
Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation
What creatures did Darwin study that made him believe variation arose constantly?
barnacle
When was the "Introduction of Species" paper written?
1855
Which book was Darwin working on when he received a package from Wallace?
"big book" on Natural Selection,
What did Darwin decide to write in July, 1858?
"an abstract of my whole work".
What title did Darwin's book ultimately have?
On the Origin of Species
By which year did Darwin have the basic premise of his natural selection theory?
1838
What did Darwin's contemporaries think of the long delays on his publishing?
Darwin's contemporaries thought the time he took was reasonable
What was the cost for the first published copies of On the Origin of Species?
fifteen shillings
What did On the Genesis of Species argue against natural selection?
claimed it included false metaphysics
Why couldn't Asa Gray use a Boston publisher for an American version of On the Origin of Species?
two New York publishing firms were already planning to exploit the absence of international copyright to print Origin
Who was the German translator that Darwin welcomed for On the Origin of Species?
Heinrich Georg Bronn,
What was Isaac Newton's belief about God  on the theory of natural law?
a rational God who established a law-abiding cosmos
How far back does Chapter One of On the Origin of Species go in its coverage of animal and plant species?
ancient Egypt
What does Darwin believe about the differences between species and varieties?
is arbitrary
What is the struggle that Darwin describes about population likened to?
doctrine of Malthus
What did Darwin say that artificial selection by animal breeders often causes?
sharp divergence in character between breeds,
What does Darwin say can explain diverse feature such as antlers on deer and bright feathers on certain male birds?
sexual selection, driven by competition between males for mates
What is the theory that is based on acquired characteristics within a species?
Lamarckism
When was The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication by Charles Darwin published?
1868
What is one possible objection to the theory of integrated variation?
often no intermediate forms between closely related species are found
What are some flying animals that Darwin thought might have evolved from bats?
flying squirrels, and flying lemurs
How does Darwin theorize that instincts have evolved in slave-making ants?
He thought it reasonable that species with an extreme dependency on slave workers had evolved in incremental steps.
Why would hybrids have characteristics that keep them from being fertile?
in order to preserve separately created species
Why did Darwin introduce a new chapter in On the Origin of Species in the sixth edition?
to respond to criticisms of earlier editions
Whose argument did Darwin borrow that geological record is very imperfect, because fossilization is rare?
Charles Lyell
How did Darwin expect species to change and evolve?
slowly, but not at the same rate
Why couldn't differences in flora and fauna be explained by differences in regions alone?
South America, Africa, and Australia all have regions with similar climates at similar latitudes, but those regions have very different plants and animals
What theory does Darwin discuss that is related to the importance of homologous structures?
morphology
What hopes does Darwin have for his theory in the natural history fields?
that his theory might produce revolutionary changes
What were Darwin's two important aims about evolution?
to show that species had not been separately created, and to show that natural selection had been the chief agent of change
What does Darwin do to show that his theory can support many theories that could not be explained by individual creation of species?
Darwin presents supporting facts drawn from many disciplines
What reason did David Quammen believe that On the Origin of Species was weakened in later editions?
Darwin making concessions and adding details to address his critics
Why did On the Origin of Species likely raise so much interest and debate?
no sharp line between scientific issues and ideological, social and religious implications
What was the general response from scientific readers to Lamarck's written work?
the transmutational ideas of Lamarck and the vague "law of development" of Vestiges had not found scientific favour
Who supported Darwin's theories on evolution despite it having little impact on his own research?
Thomas Henry Huxley
Who was the leading naturalist in Britain?
Richard Owen,
While evolutionary ideas were accepted by German biologists, what was not?
natural selection
What was the general feeling toward Darwin's ideas in France?
Darwin's ideas had little impact in France, where any scientists supporting evolutionary ideas opted for a form of Lamarckism
What justification for his objections to the process of natural selection did Karl von Nägel give?
insistence that a trivial characteristic with no adaptive advantage could not be developed by selection
Why did most scientists accept the validity of evolution by the 1870s, but considered natural selection a minor part of it?
they believed evolution was purposeful and progressive.
Who believed that action needed to be taken to level out the social and economic playing field before natural selection could occur to improve humanity?
Alfred Russel Wallace
What view did Louis Agassiz have of On the Origin of Species?
strongly opposed to the ideas in the book
What was Baden Powell's opinion of On the Origin of Species?
Baden Powell praised "Mr Darwin's masterly volume [supporting] the grand principle of the self-evolving powers of nature"
How did people attempt to rationalize or reconcile the concept of natural selection?
by supposing there was some supernatural intervention on the path leading to humans
What branching common descent theory has become the most unifying one of the life sciences?
Darwin's theory of evolution
What kinds of things have been done by scholars interested in Darwin's work?
scholars have generated an extensive literature, the Darwin Industry, about his life and work.
On what date did the Soviet Union dissolve?
December 26, 1991
Who was General Secretary prior to Mikhail Gorbachev?
Konstantin Chernenko
What party did Gorbachev belong to?
Communist Party
When was Gorbachev's speech addressing alcohol abuse?
May 1985
When did Eduard Shevardnadze gain full membership in the Politburo?
July 1, 1985
Who became Chairman of the Council of Ministers in 1985?
Nikolai Ryzhkov
What party was Helsinki-86 in disagreement with?
Communist
What is the English translation of the word Jeltoqsan?
December
Who was demonstrating?
Kazakh students
Whose support did Gorbachev seek in order to increase liberties?
the people's
When were the prisoners set free?
February 7, 1987,
Who disagreed vocally about the demonstrations being permitted?
Yegor Ligachev
Where did the demonstrators meet in June of 1987?
Freedom Monument
What was being protested in Estonia?
new phosphate mines
When was the Yerevan demonstration?
October 17, 1987
What ws the final day of the 19th Party Conference?
July 1, 1988
Whose laws would take precedence according to the declaration of national sovereignty?
Estonian
How many Azerbaijanis died in the Askeran clash?
two
Who did Gorbachev make First Secretary of the Azerbaijan Communist Party in 1988?
Abdulrahman Vezirov
Where were the first demonstrations in Armenia?
Yerevan
Who banned the Azerbaijani people from Armenia?
Nationalists
When did the Democratic Movement of Moldova start operating?
February 1988
What group was responsible for the April 25, 1988 protest?
Ukrainian Cultural Club
How many people attended the Lviv rally?
50,000
What is the English translation of Zelenyi Svit?
Green World
When did The Partyja BDF start?
1988
What was elected in 1989?
new Congress of People's Deputies
What percentage of people voted on March 26?
89.8%
Who used the legislative session to debate and criticize?
reformers
What did the Communist Party lose on October 25, 1989 with regards to elections?
special seats
What year did the Prague Spring take place?
1968
How many people were involved in the Baltic Chain?
estimated 2 million
Who was in charge of Lithuania's Communist Party in 1989
Algirdas Brazauskas
When was Abulfaz Elchibey elected to Chairman of the Popular Front?
July 16, 1989
What did the Popular Front do to Armenian railways?
blockade
What did the protesters want Georgia to leave?
Soviet Union
What is commemorated on January 22 in Ukraine?
Ukrainian Independence Day
What were people protesting in Kiev during the last part of February?
election laws
What ideology's victims were being honored by the Memorial Society?
Stalinism
How many people attended the Lviv pre-election meetings?
25,000
What were the hunger strikers hoping to draw attention to?
plight of their Church.
What were the protesters on September 2 demonstrating against?
draft election law
How many people demonstrated on October 1?
10,000 to 15,000
Where were the strikes?
Lviv
What was made Ukraine's official language in 1990?
Ukrainian
When was The Shevchenko Ukrainian Language Society made official?
mid-November
What did the Belorussians wish to be cleaned up?
Chernobyl disaster site
Who went to the Fergana Valley to restore order?
Soviet troops
Where was the fatal June 19th riots?
Zhanaozen
Which two groups saw increasing ethnic conflicts in 1988?
Armenians and Azerbaijanis
What party's candidates were murdered in the September 30 elections?
Popular Front
How many miles long was the human chain?
300
Who was voted to get their cathedral back in 1990?
Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church
How long did it take Parliament to accept Ivashko's resignation?
a week
Who would succeed Ivashko as the chairman of Parliament?
Leonid Kravchuk
Where was the UAOC protest held?
near St. Sophia’s Cathedral
What was attacked by Soviet troops on January 13?
Vilnius TV Tower
What was Gorbachev attempting to decentralize? 
Soviet Union
What did radicals want to change the economy to?
market economy
Who arrived to protect the White House?
Muscovites
Where was the secret meeting of the leaders?
Belarus
When were the Belavezha Accords ratified?
December 12
Which republic did not sign the Alma-Ata Protocol?
Georgia
When did Gorbachev resign?
December 25, 1991
What went down after Gorbachev departed from the Kremlin?
Soviet flag
Which country took over the Soviet Union's UN membership?
Russia
Who was set up as Patriarch of Kiev and all Ukraine on the 18th of November?
Mstyslav
Who was the person that tried Jesus?
Pontius Pilate
What is one of the historical certain facts about Jesus?
baptism of Jesus
Are all sources of the crucification literary?
almost all ancient sources relating to crucifixion are literary
What holds the records of the death of Jesus?
four canonical gospels
Where was Jesus arrested?
Gethsemane
What was Jesus offered to drink after his arrest?
wine mixed with gall
What detail of Jesus's Crucifiction was only found in Matthew's Gospel?
an earthquake
Which Epistle details the raising of Jesus?
First Epistle to the Corinthians
Who was crucified with Jesus per Mark?
two rebels
Where can an early non-Christian reference be found to the Crucifixion?
Mara Bar-Serapion's letter to his son
What day is presumed the Crucifixion happened?
Friday
What time was the crucifiction per Mark?
9 a.m.
Who described an interaction between Jesus on the cross and women?
Luke's gospel
Where was Jesus Crucified?
Calvary
Matthew described that who was present at the Crucifixion?
many women
What kind of cross is generally believed that Jesus was crucified on?
traditional two-beamed cross
What Epistle described the cross?
Epistle of Barnabas
How many nails were suggested they used for the crucifixion?
three nails
Where were the nails placed?
the hands, or the wrists
What was said to be used as a platform for crucifixion?
a hypopodium
What Psalm gives the words of Jesus on the cross?
Psalm 22
As what was the event mistaken by some pagans?
a solar eclipse
Which historian was referenced for the reports?
Thallus
What is recently considered the type of eclipse that occurred?
lunar
Who created the account of Jesus?
author of the Mark Gospel
Who wrote The Crucifixion of Jesus?
Frederick Zugibe
What do Christians believe regarding Jesus' death?
instrumental in restoring humankind to relationship with God
What book details the submission of Jesus to being crucified?
agent Christology
Who's Christology focuses on the death and Resurrection?
Paul's Christology
What did John Calvin claim Jesus could have done?
successfully argued for his innocence
What does Jesus' death and Resurrection support?
how salvation is granted to humanity
Who was present under the cross?
Virgin Mary
On which coast of Florida is Miami located?
Atlantic
What classification did the World Cities Study Group give to Miami?
Alpha−World City
What does downtown Miami possess more of than any other US city?
international banks
Where was Julia Tuttle born?
Cleveland
In the early 1900s, what percentage of Miami's population was of African origin?
40
Who was a notable chief of the Miami police?
H. Leslie Quigg
In what year did Fidel Castro take over Cuba?
1959
Where are the Everglades in relation to Miami?
east
What is another name for Miami limestone?
Miami oolite
Along with Miami Springs, where is the highest point of the Biscayne Aquifer?
Hialeah
Along with West, Downtown and North, what is the other notable area of Miami?
South
Along with Coconut Grove and Coral Way, what is notably present in southern Miami?
The Roads
What notable theater is present in Overtown?
Lyric
What is Miami's Köppen climate classification?
Am
When is the beginning of Miami's wet season?
May
Where does Miami rank in population among US cities?
42nd
What percentage of Miami-Dade's population was non-Hispanic white in 1960?
80
Approximately how many multinationals have their Latin American operation headquarters in Miami?
1400
Along with UniMÁS and Univisión, what Spanish language television station is headquartered in Miami?
Telemundo
How many 400+ foot skyscrapers have been built or are in the process of being built in Miami since 2001?
50
When did the Florida land boom occur?
1920s
What is Florida's busiest airport?
Miami International
How many tourists come to Miami each year?
38 million
As of 2004, what city was the poorest in the United States?
Detroit
What is the largest performing arts center in the US?
Lincoln Center
In what year did the Bee Gees relocate to Miami?
1975
Along with Electro and disco, what genre of music influenced Freestyle?
hip-hop
Who was the Warsaw Ballroom's house DJ?
david padilla
What is a notable restaurant in Little Havana?
Versailles
What is another term for Miami's dialect?
Miami accent
What sport do the Miami Heat play?
Basketball
How many gardens and parks are in Miami?
80
Under what government system does Miami operate?
mayor-commissioner
When did El Nuevo Herald leave Miami?
2013
In what neighborhood of Miami is Miami New Times based?
Midtown
When did Univisión announce it was building a production studio in Miami?
2009
How many passengers use Miami International Airport annually?
35 million
Along with "Cargo Gateway of the Americas," what is another nickname for PortMiami?
"Cruise Capital of the World"
What is the name of Miami's heavy-rail system?
Metrorail
What year was to see the completion of the Miami Intermodal Center?
2011
Along with the Silver Star, what Amtrak line runs to Miami?
Silver Meteor
Along with Orlando, what city would have been connected to Miami via Florida High Speed Rail?
Tampa
What company was previously headquartered in the Downtown Macy's?
Burdine's
Along with Virginia Key, what does the Rickenbacker Causeway connect to Brickell?
Key Biscayne
What cannot travel on Downtown Miami streets during "Bike Miami"?
automobiles
What kinds of governed nations may not have a specific, individual high court?
Civil law states
Countries with more than one supreme court may divide their primacy by what factors?
different geographical extents, or which are restricted to particular areas of law
What term describes a system where the supreme court's decisions are binding over the lower courts?
stare decisis
When was Canada's Supreme Court first established?
1875
When did Britain formally surrender sovreignty over Hong Kong?
1997
On what date was India's Supreme Court established?
January 28, 1950
What is the highest ranking court in Ireland?
The Supreme Court
Where is Israel's Supreme Court located?
Jerusalem
When did New Zealand's Supreme Court come into being?
2004
What are some of the territories within Pakistan?
FATA, Azad Kashmir, Northern Areas and Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT)
The Supreme Court of the United Kingdom holds Supremacy in what jurisdictions?
England, Wales and Northern Ireland and for civil matters in Scotland
What may cause some confusion in the US regarding state supreme courts?
titles of state supreme court vary
What document established judicial oversight of legislation in Austria?
the Austrian Constitution of 1920
What is the highest court in Brazil?
Supreme Federal Tribunal (Supremo Tribunal Federal)
What is Germany's constitution called?
the Grundgesetz
The German high court has jurisdiction over what two areas of law?
civil and criminal cases
Decisions of the Dutch Supreme Court are called what?
arresten
What type of legal system is the Philippines officially?
a civil law nation
The Spanish Supreme Court hears all cases related to law in what areas?
private and public
Sweden's two high courts are what?
the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court
When was the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka created?
1972
South Africa used what type of system to determine it's high courts until 2013?
"two apex"
What nation's model gives the power of the high court to the legistlature?
Soviet Union
What type of documents does a textual critic usually analyze?
a manuscript copy, several or many copies, but not the original document
Interest in an analysis of what text has arose in the early 1970's?
Qur'an
What is one reasons Shakespeare is a good place to focus on textual criticism?
the texts, as transmitted, contain a considerable amount of variation,
What is the first goal when attempting to analyze a new text?
identification of the first exemplar
What is included in or accompanies in "critical edition"?
apparatus criticus or critical apparatus
Why are there multiple variations of texts before the advent of the printing press?
literature was copied by hand
Different documents that represent the same original text are called what?
witnesses
What is a variorum?
The collation of all known variants of a text
What is often included in an eclectic reading?
an impression of the number of witnesses
What is external evidence?
evidence of each physical witness, its date, source, and relationship to other known witnesses.
Is a lectio brevrio or lectio difficilior approach more akin to the original text?
Applying this principle leads to taking the more difficult (unharmonized) reading as being more likely to be the original.
How many rules were proposed in the 1881 publication of the New Testament in Greek?
They proposed nine critical rules
When did scientists begin searching for a more defined guideline for textual criticism?
19th century
What is stemmatics?
a rigorous approach to textual criticism
Which steps most closely resembles copy-text editing?
examinatio and emendatio
What was Joseph Bédier's main criticism of the stemmatic method?
critics tended overwhelmingly to produce trees divided into just two branches.
What is the last step in the stemmatic method?
emendatio
When was the term copy-text introduced?
1904
Why did McKerrow alter his previous method of criticism?
deviate more widely than the earliest print from the author's original manuscript."
Are there times when an editor's judgement should be deferred?
the claims of two readings ... appear to be exactly balanced
Is the idea formed by Greg limited to a specific time period?
The principle is sound without regard for the literary period.
What are editors trying to ultimately accomplish?
our ideal of an author's fair copy of his work in its final state
Who argued against works where the author listens to input from others?
Bowers and Tanselle
What alterations did Crane make to secure commercial publication?
remove profanity, but he also made stylistic revisions
Are appendices easy to use for the average reader?
appendices that are difficult to use,
What is the biological basis for Cladistics?
to determine the evolutionary relationships between different species
When did textual criticism applied to the Book of Mormon?
the early 1970s
What is FARMS?
Foundation for Ancient Research and Mormon Studies
When was phase one completed?
1988
How common are variations in text that alter the meaning of the Urtext of the Hebrew Bible?
extremely rare
Does the Bible or Plato's Republic have more witnesses?
There are far fewer witnesses to classical texts than to the Bible
What is the criteria for copyright?
if enough creativity/originality is provided
What does LP stand for when it comes to time capacity?
long playing
What was the primary use of a phonographic disc record?
music reproduction
What was the original intent of the phonautograph?
visual analysis
In what year did Thomas Edison invent the phonograph?
1877
What is the name of lateral cut disc records?
gramophone
What was the name of the discs Edison introduced in 1909?
Blue Amberol cylinders
What were two drawback of early recordings?
Sensitivity and frequency range were poor
What tool was used to improve sound quality in early recordings for special effects?
moveable platform
What was an early took used to amplify sounds?
vacuum tubes
What was a drawback of early home recording systems?
high cost
What materials were discs made of in 1889-1894?
hard rubber
What was a major downfall of the success of Durium records?
Great Depression
What material was used by RCA Victor for special purpose records?
vinyl-based Victrolac compound
What was the most popular sized disc by 1910?
10-inch
What factors would effect playing time of a phonograph?
turntable speed and the groove spacing
On which label did Frank Sinatra release his recording of Soliloquy?
Columbia's Masterwork label
What was unique about Odeon's 1909 release of the Nutcracker Suite?
4 double-sided discs in a specially designed package
When could record album covers first be found?
1910
When were albums as we currently know them widely released?
1930s
What are reasons for recent releases of 78 rpm speed vinyls?
collectable or nostalgia purposes
In what year did Reprise plan to release a series of 78 rpm singles?
1968
When was the release by Rhino Records of 78 rpm for jukebox owners?
1990s
What was the playing time of program-transcription discs?
ten minutes playing time per side
What was a benefit of using vinyl over shellac?
lower surface noise
What caused a delay in the production of high quality records?
World War II
What did RCA release to complete against Columbia's LP?
The 45 rpm player
Who had made an attempt in the 1920s to release a long play time recording?
World Records
What gear ration creates 78.26 rpm?
46:1
When did the 45 rpm gain popularity over the 78 rpm
1950s
What percentage of Elvis Presley's single sales were of 78s?
less than 10%
What two formats replaced the 78?
33 1⁄3 rpm (often just referred to as the 33 rpm), and the 45 rpm
What was 16 2/3 rpm speed used for?
narrated publications
Which company lost the "War of the Speeds"?
RCA
What format of LPs was discontinued?
10-inch
What do the initials EP stand for?
extended play
What three speeds were sound on most home stereos in the mid 1950's?
78, 45, 33 1⁄3
Wy did records outside of the US often have small holes with the ability to punch out the center?
for use in jukeboxes
What term was coined to differentiate better sounding products in the 1920s?
high fidelity
What did Alan Blumlein event?
stereophonic record system
What did quadraphonic recording feature?
recorded four separate sound signals.
What was a major issue with CD-4 technology?
no cutting heads were available that could handle the HF information
For which company did C. Robert Fine work for?
Mercury Records
What technique were used to reduce inner-groove distortion?
CBS DisComputer and Teldec Direct Metal Mastering
How did Disco Eye-Cued system benefit DJs?
visual cue to DJs mixing the records
What was required for quality playback of DBX recordings?
automatic gain control
What company out of Japan offered laser turntables that read vinyl discs optically?
ELPJ
Who is Irene?
scanning machine for disc records
What terms are used for recording with more than one track?
long-play" (LP) and "extended-play" (EP
Which colors of 45 were available as late as 1952 before being discontinued?
yellow and deep red
In which direction does the groove in a normal disc run?
outside edge towards the center
What is a 'lead out'?
wide-pitched section
Where were records made with raised label areas?
reducing the risk of damage
What is the most used material for modern audiophile vinyl releases?
New or "virgin" heavy/heavyweight (180–220 g) vinyl
What is an effect of using worn molds when casting records?
The "orange peel" effect
What is the two step process?
"father" is removed of its silver and converted into a stamper
What was a known issue of using shellac to make records?
Breakage was very common
What causes clicks and pops on vinyl records?
Dust and scratches
What causes warping in vinyl records?
heat, improper storage, exposure to sunlight, or manufacturing defects
When is distortion most common on a gramophone record?
Distortion towards the end of the side
What would be a cause of low frequency sounds when listening?
warped disk
What is a limitation of low frequency recordings?
limiting the playing time
Whom found that they can make musical instruments sound more natural with an amplifier boost at the turnover point?
G. H. Miller
Whom found Wente-style condenser microphones helpful?
P. G. A. H. Voigt
What was the industry standard in Europe for record equalization?
there was no industry standard
How far back did records show the art of sound recordings?
1925
Who made the move to standardize recordings?
National Association of Broadcasters
What bass settings were needed to eliminate hum?
below 100 Hz
How far back could these recording practices be traced?
1925
What was the quality of sound recordings made with horns at the end of the acoustic era?
many fine examples
What technique offered realistic sounds during playback?
Western Electric licensed recording method
What is one example of an acoustic phonograph on which one would listen to electric recordings?
Victor Orthophonic phonograph
What are two examples of high quality microphones?
moving coil microphone was introduced around 1930 and the velocity or ribbon microphone
What was a benefit of the use of magnetic pickup cartridge?
high quality cuts
When was the Western Electric System introduced?
early 1930s
What was a benefit of vertical groove cuts?
longer playback time
What were used to make vinyl pressings?
master cuts
When was the business booming for do it yourself sound fanatics?
1949
What is generally the lowest sound a human can hear?
20 Hz
Who would engrave the master disc of a vinyl record?
record cutter
Should alcohol be used to clean gramophone recordings?
alcohol should only be used on PVC or optical media
Is it difficult to transfer recording from historic interest to newer technologies?
Anyone can do this
What was a major cause of declined vinyl sales?
major label distributors restricted their return policies
Are records generally out of print as of date?
Vinyl records continue to be manufactured and sold today
What is a reason a DJ would prefer vinyl to CD?
direct manipulation
Whom set the most recent sales record of vinyl records since 1991?
Jack White
Warner Bros. pictures before what year are part of the Turner Entertainment library?
1950
How much did Ted Turner pay for Metro-Goldwyn Mayer?
$1.5 billion
On what network did Turner Entertainment's film library air prior to the creation of TCM?
TNT
How many subscribers had access to TCM upon it launch?
one million
With what company did Turner Broadcasting Systems merge in 1996?
Time Warner
In what year did TCM begin the Young Composers Film Competition?
2000
In what year did TCM receive a Peabody Award?
2008
What were TCM Extras previously known as?
One Reel Wonders
In what year did the Motion Picture Association of America introduce its rating system?
1968
What retrospective of the Oscars is shown yearly on TCM?
31 Days of Oscar
Who owns the Selznick International Pictures library?
Walt Disney Studios
Who owns the majority of pre-1950 Paramount sound releases?
EMKA, Ltd./NBCUniversal Television Distribution
Who presents films on TCM on Wednesday nights?
Robert Osborne
On what day of the week are Star of the Month films aired?
Wednesdays
When does 31 Days of Oscar occur?
month preceding the Academy Awards
What movie block shows silent films?
Silent Sunday Nights
In what month does the Summer Under the Stars event take place?
August
What series replaced Funday Night at the Movies?
Essentials Jr.
In what year did Screened Out appear?
2007
In what month and year did TCM Remembers premiere?
December 1994
Through what company is the TCM Vault Collection released?
Warner Home Video
What month and year saw the introduction of the TCM Wineclub?
October 2015
What Canadian cable provider first carried Turner Classic Movies?
Shaw Cable
What was the origin of Hindu philosophy?
ancient India
What have scholars argued about with regards to nastika and astika philosophies?
relationship and differences
How many orthodox philosophies are in Hindu?
six
What do ancient Hindu writings identify as the means to knowledge and truth?
pramāṇas
Which Hindu school stresses dualism between consciousness and matter?
Samkhya
How many types of Guna exist in Hindu philosophy?
three
Of what is yoga a part  in Indian philosophy?
philosophical schools
What principle does yoga use from Samkhya?
jñāna
What philosophy is a naturalist school?
Vaiśeṣika
According to Vaisesika philosophy, how many substances comprise reality?
four
What school of thought is closest to Vaisesika school?
Nyāya
How many ways does the Mimamsa separate into subschools?
several
What type of doctrines are contained in the Mimamsa  school?
atheistic and theistic
To what study did Mimamsa give rise?
philology
On which sutras did the Vedanta school focus?
Upanishads and Brahma
What did the Vedanta school represent in Hindu philosophy?
knowledge-centered understanding
What means 
Advaita
According to a school of Vedanta, what is all reality?
Brahman
What is the philosophy of dualism?
Viśiṣṭādvaita
Of what does Dvaita Vedanta theorize the existence?
two separate realities
What early philosopher proposed Dvaitadvaita?
Nimbarka
In what text is Shaivism recounted?
Śvetāśvatara Upanishad
What is the oldest school of Shaivism?
Pāśupata Shaivism
What group divided the world into two parts?
Pāśupatas
What type of philosophy does both Kasmir Shaivism and Advaita Vedanta share?
non-dual
What are the two most powerful political parties in the United States?
Democratic Party and the Republican Party
Around what time did the first political factions start to emerge?
late-17th-century England
Who's liberal political ideas influenced the Whigs?
John Locke
Who did the Tories oppose?
Whigs
Who was the first distinctive Whig party that emerged from the chaos?
the Rockingham Whigs
What was the modern Conservative party created from?
the 'Pittite' Tories
What were the two proto-political parties?
the Federalist Party and the Democratic-Republican Party
Who was the leader of the Irish political party in the 1880s?
Charles Stewart Parnell
Do political parties have a Party leader?
A political party is typically led by a party leader
When does a party form an official opposition?
When a party becomes the largest party not part of the Government
What is considered a measurement of a state's support to liberal democracy?
The freedom to form, declare membership in, or campaign for
Will mainstream political parties not cooperate towards outsider parties if they are too extream?
mainstream political parties may form an informal cordon sanitarian which applies a policy of non-cooperation towards those "Outsider Parties"
Do official political parties exist in a nonpartisan system?
In a nonpartisan system, no official political parties exist
In what systems is the political party allowed to legally hold effective power?
one-party systems
When are opposition parties allowed?
In dominant-party systems
What type of party system is the United States?
two-party system
What has the UK political system functioned as?
a two-party (sometimes called a "two-and-a-half party") system
In which case are parties not likely to gain power on their own?
in cases where there are three or more parties
What are called factions by some people?
Political parties
Why did parties that relied on donations or subscriptions run into problems?
increased scrutiny of donations there has been a long-term decline in party memberships
In the United Kingdom, what is awarded to people who help fund the parties?
peerages
What are the two categories of public funding?
direct, which entails a monetary transfer to a party, and indirect
What can also be provided by foreign aid?
funding
What parties is the color green for?
Islamist parties, Nordic agrarian parties and Irish republican parties
What is the color red associated with?
right-wing Republican Party
When did political parties organize themselves into international organizations?
19th and 20th century
Who drew a difference between cadre parties and mass parties?
Maurice Duverger
What does A cappella mean in the Italian language?
in the manner of the chapel
What form of music was A cappella predominately used for in its early years?
religious music
Who was a known composer of A cappella music in the 15th century?
Josquin des Prez
When did Russian musika show up?
khorovïye kontsertï
What is the name of the religious a cappella style used with shape notes?
Sacred Harp
Why were instruments more unwelcome to Christians?
They were considered a Catholic innovation
What does the rejection of instruments in Christian music likely stem from?
an interpretation of history
On what day is using musical instruments not allowed? 
Sabbath
What is the name of the philosopher who praised music without instruments?
Philo
When did a cappella begin to take hold in the United States?
1911
What a cappella group rose to popularity in 1943?
The Song Spinners
In place of instruments, what do some modern a cappella groups implement?
vocal percussion
How many works of a cappella in musical theater have been successful in Off-Broadway productions?
four
What Off-Broadway theater did Perfect Harmony open at?
Theatre Row’s Acorn Theatre
What is the name of the a cappella musical that debuted Off-Broadway in the same year as Perfect Harmony?
In Transit
What type of a cappella music is specific to American culture?
Barbershop music
What is the name of the first female barbershop organization?
Sweet Adelines
What is the name of the Swedish man known for being a large influence to a cappella across the world?
Eric Ericson
What is the previous name of oldest recorded college a cappella group?
RPI Glee Club
Whas is the name of the ethnic a capella group founded at the University of Pennsylvania in 1996?
Penn Masala
What popular a capella competition is not specific to college groups?
Harmony Sweepstakes
What do some a capella groups do other than sing words?
emulate instrumentation
What did the Swingle Singers primarily use to emulate musical instruments?
nonsense words
What is the Latin for Order of Preachers?
Ordo Praedicatorum
During what time period did the Dominican Order do its best work?
the Middle Ages
During the Middle Ages, who was no longer expected to stay behind walls away from the common man?
Men of God
The Dominican Order received influence from what monastic order?
the Benedictines
How did Dominic inspire his followers?
with loyalty to learning and virtue
What subject did Dominic particularly love?
theology
With whom did Dominic travel with to Denmark?
Prior Diego de Acebo
How did Prior Diego think the members of the Holy Church acted?
with an offensive amount of pomp and ceremony
In what year did Dominic establish a convent?
1206
What framework did Dominic use in order to build his institution?
Rule of St. Augustine
Dominic studied in what city?
Palencia
Where did Dominic and his followers live during early 1220?
the ancient Roman basilica of Santa Sabina
What European country did the Dominican Friars quickly expand to?
England
The term "Dominican mysticism" is also knows as what?
German mysticism
What historical period gave the Dominican Order a challenge?
the Renaissance
In 1876, how many preachers were expelled from the Dominican Order?
500
What country held a prominent place in the revival movement?
France
What country has produced a large number of preachers?
France
What school publishes the Revue Biblique?
Biblical school at Jerusalem
What do present day Dominican Order associates do?
share the mission and charism of the Dominican Family
The tradition of the Dominican Order includes what?
charity
What did Dominic greatly struggle with?
relationship with God
What spirit did Dominic give to his followers?
to assist those searching for the truth
Who was the Master general of the Dominican Order during the mid 1200s?
Humbert of Romans
What did Humbert use to teach even weak members of the Dominican Order?
uncomplicated language
The Dominican Order was also greatly helped by what German friar?
Albertus Magnus
Albert Magnus studied Dionysus during what historical period?
medieval
What idea did Albertus champion?
positive knowledge of God is possible
What enhances man's faith in God according to Albertus Magnus?
wisdom
What virtue guides Christians in their understanding of God?
Meekness
What did the Europeans of the Dominican Order bring to the group?
ecstatic mysticism
The search for mysticism in the Dominican Order goes back to what?
Hebrew Bible
Who did some early Dominican followers have trouble reconciling?
female Dominican houses
How did female Dominican houses differ from male ones?
lack of apostolic work
After what age could women become members of the Dominican Order?
thirteen
What did the nuns not do in the Dominican Order?
preach among the people
The Dartford sisters were heirs of what priory?
priory of Poissy
The Dominican Order in England was controlled by who?
Englishmen
What famous school was home to the first English Dominican Order?
Oxford
What did European mysticism concentrate on that English mysticism didn't?
ecstatic experiences of union with the divine
What was so important to English mystics?
the journey of, or process of, faith
How did the English order hope to gain knowledge of Christ?
through an imitation of His life
The English Dominican Order focused primarily on what?
the events of Christ's life
What is man always seen as?
an image of God
How many public schools are regulated by the 1868 Public Schools Act?
ten
How many British prime ministers attended Eton?
19
How many students receive financial aid at Eton?
20%
What purpose did Eton Dorney have to the London Olympic games?
training facilities
Who was Eton's first Headmaster?
William Waynflete
Around what year did construction continue after a period of financial struggle?
1517
Who was incorrctly quoted in saying "The Battle of Waterloo was won on the playing-fields of Eton"?
Duke of Wellington
Which club at Eaton is for motorcyclists?
59 Club
To whom were School Hall and School Library erected in memoriam of?
Etonians who had died in the Boer War
What were new students once called by others?
'Jews'
The College boarding house is reserved for whom?
King's Scholars
What is the term given to students who lived in town, but not on the campus of Eton?
Oppidans
If a boy elects to live in an Oppidan house instead of the College house, what are they called?
Oppidan Scholars
Which Oppidan Houses did not change from their original 1720 names?
Godolphin House, Jourdelay's
What term was given to juniors who acted as servants to older students?
"fags"
There is false belief that the current uniforms were first worn for what event?
mourning for the death of George III
How many current students take Chinese courses at Eaton?
more than 100
With whom does the primary responsibility for a student's leaning lie?
House Master
Which Eton society is dedicated to philosophy?
Wine and Wotton’s
For what is the Huxley prize awarded?
a project on a scientific subject
What does the Busk Fund support?
individual ventures that show particular initiative
What action results in something being "Sent Up For Good?"
If any boy produces an outstanding piece of work
What is the opposite of a Show Up?
a "Rip"
What term is used if a master is more than 15 minutes late to a class?
a "run"
The birch was abolished and replaced with what?
caning
What term is given to the Head of Music?
"Precentor"
How many people can sit in the audience at Eton's main theatre?
400
Who are cast in Eton's female roles in their productions?
girls from surrounding schools
What is Eton's best-known holiday?
"Fourth of June"
Why is being a charity beneficial to Eton?
substantial tax breaks
Who granted money to Eton for a sports complex in 1995?
the National Lottery
Who claimed she had been unfairly fired by Eton and won her case?
Sarah Forsyth
The School dismissed claims that Prince Harry was cheating by saying the claims were what?
unfounded and irrelevant
Who defended fifty schools accused of price-sharing, stating they were unaware the laws had changed?
Jean Scott
How much had Eton received in farming subsidies in 2005?
£2,652
How many outreach events were held at Eton by Oxford University in 2010?
nine
When was an accidental email sent to potential students of Eton that warranted a personal apology to each family?
July 2015
What was Eton's beagle club accused of in January 2016?
an illegal hare hunt
Which male private school in Boston, USA has Eton formed a relationship with?
Roxbury Latin School
Which Duke of Gloucester attended Eton?
Prince Richard
Which 2012 Nobel Prize winner attended Eton?
John Gurdon
Which current BBC Deputy Political Editor attended Eton?
James Landale
According to actor Dominic Wes, would he send his children to Eton?
Yes, I would.
Who was thought to have founded Cork?
Saint Finbarr
Who granted Cork's charter?
Prince John
Who controlled Cork's municipal government?
12–15 merchant families, whose wealth came from overseas trade with continental Europe
What is the weather like in Cork?
mild and changeable with abundant rainfall and a lack of temperature extremes
How much precipitation does Cork usually receive?
1,227.9 millimetres (4.029 ft)
Where is a good place to find dramatic plays all year in Cork?
The Everyman Palace Theatre (capacity c.650) and the Granary Theatre (capacity c.150)
Which group members of The High Llamas are from Cork?
Cathal Coughlan and Sean O'Hagan
What are 2 major cultural influences of Cork?
Huguenot communities in the 17th century, through to Eastern European communities
What sets the Cork accent apart from other Irish accents?
Patterns of tone and intonation often rise and fall, with the overall tone tending to be more high-pitched
Is there a Christian radio station in Cork?
Life 93.1FM
WHich Irish newspaper has it's homebase in Cork, Ireland?
the Irish Examiner
From which periods are the buildings in Cork from?
Medieval to Modern
What is main street Cork?
St. Patrick's Street
What style does most of the city's architecture belong to?
Georgian
What is the name of the college in Cork?
University College Cork
Who takes care of roads and sanitation in Cork?
local government
What types of retail offerings are found in Cork?
state of the art shopping centres and family owned local shops
What is the main industry in Cork?
pharmaceuticals
Cork is home to which internationally famous brewery?
Heineken
Who runs the public busses in Cork?
Bus Éireann
When was the Cork South Link dual carriageway built?
1980s
How many rail stations has cork had over the years?
eight
How many tram systems were in Cork?
two
Which line was reopened in 2009?
Glounthaune to Midleton
Where can one study nautical and marine subjects in Cork?
The National Maritime College of Ireland
What is the biggest conglomeration of start-up companies in Cork?
The Rubicon Centre
What are the biggest sports draws in Cork?
Hurling and football
What kinds of sea faring sports are available in Cork?
rowing and sailing
What's the most famous cricket club in Cork?
Cork County Cricket Club
Which Australian Rules Football team is Cork home to?
Leeside Lions
What is federalism?
mode of government, combining a general government (the central or 'federal' government) with regional governments
What distinguishes Federalism from other multi-level governments?
equality of standing between the two levels of government
What is the Latin word for federalism? 
foedus
Where does the federalist model work best in? 
homogeneous states
In the United States, what was federalism referred to? 
belief in a stronger central government.
Who has a greater history of unitary states? 
Europe
What happened on January 1st 1901?
nation-state of Australia officially came into existence as a federation
When was Brazil's fall of the monarchy?
1889
What is the government of India based on? 
tiered system
What is a distinguishing aspect of Indian federalism?
asymmetric
Who is the strongest advocate of the European Federalism?
Germany, Italy, Belgium and Luxembourg
When did the federal war end?
1863
How many components does the Belgian federalism have? 
three components
Which cities are recognized in the Spanish Democratic Constitution? 
Basque Country and Navarre
What are anarchists against? 
State
Who can elect the members of the upper house? 
government or legislature
What is federalism seen as? 
a useful way to structure political systems in order prevent violence among different groups with countries
What happened to Russia's subdivision of government? 
changed towards a generally autonomous model
What is federalism in the United States?
ederalism in the United States is the evolving relationship between state governments and the federal government of the United States
Why did the constitution didn't have to explain federalism? 
Because the states were preexisting political entities
What was the federalist party of the United States opposed to?
Democratic-Republicans
What is the meaning of federalism?
as a political movement, and of what constitutes a 'federalist', varies with country and historical context
What happened between 1938 to 1995?
the U.S. Supreme Court did not invalidate any federal statute as exceeding Congress' power under the Commerce Clause.
How many components does the Belgian political landscape include?
two components
The US Constitution says what to amendments? 
provides that no state may be deprived of equal representation in the senate without its consent
What does every component state of federation possess?
the same powers
What does federations have for amendments of the constitution? 
special procedures
What does the structures of the federal government incorporate?
mechanisms to protect the rights of component states
What does federations often employ?
union of states
When is a federation formed?
two levels
China is the largest what?
China is the largest unitary state in the world by both population and land area
What type of state is the Philippines?
unitary state
What type of state is Spain?
unitary state
How has United Kingdom been governed?
unitary state
What has the process of devolution in the UK did?
decentralised power once again
What is ecclesiology?
the doctrine of the church
When was the earliest source of political federalism according to Christians?
is the ecclesiastical federalism found in the Bible.
In nearly all federalism countries, central powers enjoy what?
the powers of foreign policy and national defense as exclusive federal powers
Which country is Galicia in?
Spain
During which period did humans first inhabit Galicia?
Middle Paleolithic
How high does Galicia's mountain ranges rise?
2,000 m (6,600 ft)
What is one variation of Gallicia's name used during the Middle Ages?
Galletia
Which author wrote that "Galicians are called so, because of their fair skin, as the Gauls"?
Isidore
Where in Galicia has the oldest evidence of humans been found?
Eirós Cave
What does the Castro culture's name mean?
Culture of the Castles
What were the forts that the Gallaeci lived in called?
castros
Though the Muslims couldn't take full control of Galicia, when was it that they invaded Spain?
711
Under whom did Roman legions first enter Galicia?
Decimus Junius Brutus
At the end of which year did Central Europe tribes invade the Roman Empire?
406
Which cult arose in Galicia during the 9th century?
Apostle James
Who was it that in 1063 gave rule over Galicia to his son?
Ferdinand I
Social turmoil led to conflict?
Guerras Irmandiñas
Castillan armies invaded Galicia between which years?
1480 and 1486
Which government body was formed in 1480?
Santa Hermandad
Where did Sir Francis Drake attack in 1585 and again in 1589?
Vigo
War broke out with which other countries?
Portugal and Catalonia
Which nationalist movement arose in the early 20th century?
Solidaridad Gallega
Along with Galicia's, which other two province's autonomy was annulled?
Catalonia and the Basque provinces
Francisco Franco was himself a Galician from which city?
Ferrol
Which form of government did Galicia start using in 1975
democracy
Which former minister under Franco's rule headed the autonomous government  from 1990 to 2005?
Manuel Fraga
What is Galicia's surface area in sq/km?
29,574
What are estuaries called in Galicia?
rías
The Galician coast is estimated to have about how many archipelagos, islets, and freestanding rocks?
316
What is Galicia's main mountain range?
Macizo Galaico
What is Galicia is poetically known as?
country of the thousand rivers
Which tree species has become a problem for Galicia?
eucalyptus tree
Which cow species is native to Galicia?
Galician Blond
Where is Galicia's warmest coastal station?
Pontevedra
What is the southern area's climate classified as?
Mediterranean
What is the political capital city?
Santiago de Compostela
How many comarcas does Galicia consist of?
53
Which industry is Galicia's main money maker?
fishing
Which two coastal regions are now major tourist destinations?
Rías Baixas and Santiago de Compostela
Which port is Galicia's most important?
Vigo
The Autopista AP-53 was originally built by whom?
Xunta de Galicia
In which year did Galicia's first railway line open?
1873
A rapid population growth after occurred after which war?
Spanish Civil War
For how long was Spanish the official language of Galicia?
more than four centuries
Roughly what percentage of the population actually speaks Galician?
91
The earliest Galician-Portuguese documents date back to which year?
1228
What is Galicia's most widespread religion?
Christianity
Which church has had a large influence over Galicia since the Middle Ages?
Catholic Church
Which civilization was it that founded some of the first Galician cities?
Romans
Who is Galicia's patron saint?
Saint James the Greater
Which metro area is largest in terms of population?
A Coruña-Ferrol
What to Galician's call themselves in their language?
galegos
Which Spanish city does the Autovía A-6 lead to?
Madrid
Which old english word does the word "green" originate from?
grene
What is green a symbol of in China?
fertility and happiness
Germanic, Romance, Slavic, and Greek all has old terms for "green" which are derived from words for what?
fresh, sprouting vegetation
How many terms does Japanese have for the color green?
two
In which language does the word for "green" also mean "rank" and "smelly"?
Thai
In which color system is green created by combining yellow and blue?
subtractive
What is produced on a computer display when light from the green primary is mixed with some light from the blue primary?
A unique green
Which color of lasers are widely available to the general public?
green
What do pigments do with the color green?
reflect
What is made by placing a plate of blade of copper, brass, or bronze into vat of fermenting wine for several weeks, then scraping off and drying the green powder?
Verdigris
Which green food coloring is known to cause hyperactivity, asthma, urticaria, and insomnia?
Green S (E142)
How do fireworks create green sparks?
barium salts
Why are many plants green?
chlorophyll
How do animals typically use the color green?
camouflage
What is the appearance of green in th eyes attributed to?
an optical illusion
Which color was the symbol to regeneration and rebirth in Ancient Egypt?
green
What is the ancient Egyptian hieroglyph for green?
a growing papyrus sprout
Which ancient greek philosopher considered green to be located midway between black and white?
Aristotle
What pigment was made by soaking copper plates in fermenting wine?
verdigris
Why were vegetal green dyes less than ideal?
they rapidly faded or changed color
When was green associated with the romantic movement in literature and art?
18th and 19th century
When did the systematic study of color theory begin?
late nineteenth century
When were green and red standardized as the colors of international railroad signs?
19th century
What was absinthe known as?
the green fairy
Which country had a flag in 1977 that was only green?
Libya
What is the largest green party in Europe?
Alliance '90/The Greens
What color vestments do Roman Catholic and traditional Protestant clergy wear at liturgical celebrations during Ordinary time?
green
What was designed to standardize the connection of computer peripherals?
USB
What are the different kinds of USB connectors?
Type-A or a Type-B
What size is the most durable from the point of designed insertion lifetime?
the "micro" size
USB connections come in what?
five data transfer modes
When did the seven companies begin developing USB's?
1994
When was the original USB 1.0 Specification introduced?
January 1996
What provides a fourth transfer mode?
The new SuperSpeed bus
What are the power variants in USB 3.0 ports?
low-power and high-power
When were the plans to update USB 3.0 to 10 Gbit/s revealed?
January 2013
When was the Type-C Specification 1.0 finalized?
August 2014
Electronically marked cables have a chip that contains what?
an ID function based on the configuration data channel and vendor-defined messages
The design of USB is asymmetrical in what?
its topology
What are logical sub-devices referred to as?
device functions
What is a pipe?
a connection from the host controller to a logical entity
If the direction of the data transfer is from the device to the host, what does the host send?
the host sends an IN packet
What is started when a USB is first connected to a host?
enumeration process
What do transaction translators do?
convert between high-speed USB 2.0 buses and full and low speed buses
What do USB's implement connections to?
storage devices
Since when can most computers boot from USB mass storage devices?
since mid-2004
Several manufacturers offer what?
external portable USB hard disk drives
Media Transfer Protocol was designed by who?
Microsoft
What do older computers have to have in order for USB mice and keyboards to be used?
PS/2 connectors with the aid of a small USB-to-PS/2 adapter
What is difficult to do with a USB plug?
to insert a USB plug into its receptacle incorrectly
What do Type-A receptacles do on host devices?
supply power
Standard connectors were designed to be what?
robust
Where is the external metallic sheet connected?
typically connected to system ground
What are the newer micro-USB receptacles designed for?
a minimum rated lifetime of 10,000 cycles of insertion
What type of tolerances does the USB standard specify for compliant USB connectors?
loose tolerances
USB cables and device have only what on their ends?
plugs
What has been used to connect digital cameras. smartphones and other devices to tablet computers?
Various connectors
What is the micro connector designed for?
to reduce the mechanical wear on the device
In 2007 who endorsed micro-USB as the standard connector for data and power on mobile devices?
The cellular phone carrier group Open Mobile Terminal Platform
Who defined a common External Power Supply for use with smartphones sold?
The European Standardisation Bodies CEN, CENELEC and ETSI
What are all USB On-The-Go devices required to have?
one, and only one, USB connector
The OTG device with the B-plug inserted is called what?
B-device
What is USB?
a serial bus
How long is the maximum cable length the USB 2.0 provides?
5 meters for devices running at Hi Speed
What is a unit load defined as?
100 mA in USB 1.x and 2.0
What is an example of a device that requires more than 500 mA of current?
high-speed external disk drives
What defines a new type of USB port, called the charging port?
The USB Battery Charging Specification Revision 1.1
How many types of charging ports exist?
Two types
What does the USB Battery Charging Specification Revision 1.2 make clear of?
there are safety limits to the rated current at 5 A coming from USB 2.0
When did the USB Promoters Group announce the finalization of the USB Power Delivery specification?
In July 2012
The USB Power Delivery revision 2.0 specification has been released as part of what?
USB 3.1
What can sleep-and-charge USB ports be used to do?
charge electronic devices even when the computer is switched off
On what laptops are the USB ports marked with a USB symbol with an added lightening bolt icon?
On Dell and Toshiba laptops
When did the GSM Association follow suit?
17 February 2009
When did many of the largest mobile phone manufacturers sign an EC-sponsored MoU?
June 2009
Some USB devices require what?
more power than is permitted by the specifications for a single port.
What does the USB specification limit?
the inrush current
What do some non-standard USB devices use?
the 5 V power supply without participating in a proper USB network
How is the USB data transmitted?
by toggling the data lines between the J state and the opposite K state
What is a USB packet's end called?
EOP (end-of-packet)
What type of protocol is used for USB 2.0 devices during a reset?
a special protocol
Write operations to typical Hi-Speed hard drives can what?
sustain rates of 25–30 MB/s,
After the sync field, all packets are made of how many bit bytes?
8-bit bytes
Handshake packets consist of only a single what?
PID byte
IN and OUT tokens contain what?
a seven-bit device number and four-bit function number
 a larger three-byte SPLIT token with a seven-bit hub number, 12 bits of control flags, and a five-bit CRC were created to do what?
to perform split transactions
There are two basic forms of data packet, what are they?
DATA0 and DATA1
Low-bandwidth devices are supported with what?
a special PID value, PRE
These and other differences reflect the differing design goals of what?
two buses
The IEEE 802.3af Power over Ethernet (PoE) standard specifies a what?
more elaborate power negotiation scheme than powered USB
USB  was designed for peripherals to be what?
closely associated with a host computer
eSATA does not supply power to what?
external devices
USB 2.0 High-Speed Inter-Chip (HSIC) is a what?
chip-to-chip variant of USB 2.0
What was Sichuan referred to as by ancient Chinese sources?
Ba-Shu
What did Emperor  Duyu transform himself into after his death?
a cuckoo
What surrounds the Sichuan basin to the west?
the Himalayas
By what year did the Qin armies finish their conquest of Shu and Ba?
316 BC
During which dynasty did Sichuan regain its political and cultural prominence for which it was known during the Han?
Tang dynasty
What was the nickname rebel leader Zhang Xianzhong?
Yellow Tiger
To which city was the Chinese capitol relocated to during Japanese occupation in the 20th century? 
Chongqing
What group was the main antagonist during the Chinese Civil War?
the Communists
What Chinese Province had the largest population until 1997?
Sichuan
How many distinct parts make up Sichuan?
two
Which river flows through the Sichuan Basin?
Yangtze River
What climate classification does the Sichuan Basin hold?
humid subtropical climate
What area for the "Province of Abundance" refer to?
Sichuan
What are some major industrial outputs of Sichuan?
coal, energy, iron and steel
What is the largest dam ever built in the world?
Three Gorges Dam
By how much did foreign trade increase in Sichuan in 2008?
53.3 percent
By how much did Sichuan increase minimum wage in December 2007?
12.5 percent
When was the Chengdu Economic and Technological Development Zone approved?
February 2000
When was the Chengdu Hi-tech Industrial Development Zone established?
1988
Which Parks make up the Chengdu Hi-tech Development Zone?
South Park and the West Park
What is the planned area of the Mianyang Hi-Tech Industrial Development Zone?
17 sq mi
How long did it take to complete the Sui-Yu Expressway?
three years
What race is the majority of Sichuan?
Han Chinese
What are the three most populist provinces in China?
Guangdong, Shandong and Henan
What are the largest minorities of western Sichuan?
Tibetans and Qiang
What was Unicode published as?
The Unicode Standard
What are the most commonly used encodings of Unicode?
UTF-8, UTF-16 and the now-obsolete UCS-2
What is the aim of Unicode?
transcending the limitations of traditional character encodings
What were the first 256 code points of Unicode made identical to? 
ISO-8859-1
When was a surrogate character mechanism implemented in Unicode 2.0?
1996
What are the General Categories of Unicode?
Letter, Mark, Number, Punctuation, Symbol, Separator and Other
What are code points in the range U+D800-U+DBFF known as? 
high-surrogate code points
What is an ogonek? 
a dot above
What policy guaranteed that characters have a unique and immutable name?
Name Stability policy
Who was Unicode developed in conjunction with?
International Organization for Standardization
What does the print on demand, core version not include? 
any code charts or standard annexes
Michael Everson, Rick McGowan, and Ken Whistler make up what group?
Unicode Roadmap Committee
How many mapping methods does Unicode define?
two
What does BOM stand for? 
Unicode Byte Order Mark
What is the UTF-8 standard? 
RFC 3629
How is UTF-32 widely used? 
internal representation of text in programs
What combinations does unicode contain in normal use?
most letter/diacritic combinations
The CJK ideographs comprise simpler elements called what in English?
radicals
What does ACE stand for? 
Arabic Calligraphic Engine
where are instructions embedded to tell fonts how to output sequences? 
in fonts
What subset of Unicode is used by Windows? 
WGL-4 with 652 characters
What does rendering software display when it can't process a Unicode character? 
open rectangle, or the Unicode "replacement character"
What is the dominant scheme for internal processing? 
Unicode
What is recommended for email transmission of Unicode? 
the UTF-8 character set and the Base64 or the Quoted-printable transfer encoding
How many fonts support the majority of Unicode's character repertoire? 
fewer than a dozen fonts
What is the code for separating lines? 
U+2028
Why has Unicode been criticized for not separately encoding forms of kanji?
complicates the processing of ancient Japanese and uncommon Japanese names
what tables of OpenType allow permit the selection of alternative glyph representations?
Advanced Typographic
Unicode was designed for a round trip format conversion to and from what? 
preexisting character encodings
What kind of mappings must be provided between characters in existing legacy character sets and those in Unicode?
Injective mappings
How many code points are tamil and Devanagari allocated? 
128
What standard did Unicode inherit involving a Thai language? 
Thai Industrial Standard 620
How are characters with diacritical marks represented? 
either as a single precomposed character or as a decomposed sequence of a base letter plus one or more non-spacing marks
What city has the biggest population in Michigan?
Detroit
How much of Michigan's population resides in the Detroit metropolitan area? 
one-half
By how much has Detroit's population fallen this century?
25
Who is the Governor in Michigan?
Rick Snyder
What was Detroit's population in 1773?
1,400
What trade was instrumental to the growth of this region?
fur
In which War was Detroit captured by the British?
War of 1812
What year was the Battle of Gettysburg?
1863
What was a nickname for Detroit in the late 19th century?
Paris of the West
Who was the labor leader of the Teamsters?
Jimmy Hoffa
What was the name of a vigilante group in Detroit?
The Black Legion
How many people were killed in the race riot of 1943?
34
In which year was the last electric streetcar line removed?
1956
In which year did Martin Luther King Jr. give a speech in Detroit?
1963
Who was Governor of Michigan in 1970?
William Milliken
What case is cited as a reason for White people leaving Detroit?
Milliken
Who was the first black mayor of Detroit?
Coleman Young
What hurt the Auto industry?
gasoline crises
What group of buildings opened in 1977?
The Renaissance Center
In which year did Detroit's population peak?
1950
In which year was Campus Martius open?
2004
How much has been invested in Detroit since 2006?
$9 billion
How many stray dogs do studies suggest are in Detroit?
1,000-3,000
What is the prominent topographical feature in Detroit?
Detroit Moraine
What company mines salt in Detroit?
Detroit Salt Company
What body of water affects Detroit's climate?
Great Lakes
What is the average rainfall for summer months?
33.5 inches
What architectural style does One Detroit Center boast?
post modern Neo-Gothic spires
What areas of Detroit contain high rises?
Downtown and New Center
What is the large island park in Detroit?
Belle Isle Park
How large is Lafayette Park?
78-acre
How many of Detroit's residential lots are are underdeveloped?
a quarter
How much in stimulus money was announced in 2008?
$300-million
What was the median household income in 2009?
$26,098
What is Oakland Counties rank in affluence in 2009?
11th
What percentage of Detroit's residents where white in 1940?
90.4
Why did Blacks move to Detroit in the middle if the 20th century?
Jim Crow
How much of Michigan's population is Black?
13 percent
When did Mexicantown start to grow?
1940s
Where does most of the Bangladeshi population in Detroit live?
A portion of Detroit next to eastern Hamtramck
Which company makes timepieces in Midtown?
Shinola
What Tech company is based in Detroit?
Compuware
Which part of Detroit has gotten billions in investment around the turn of the millennium?
downtown
What part of Detroit still has high population density??
Midtown
Which bank announced an investment into Detroit in 2014?
JPMorgan Chase
Which city has a lower than usual drinking age?
Windsor, Ontario
What "Arsenal" was Detroit a part of ?
Arsenal of Democracy
Which artist resided in Delray?
John Lee Hooker
Who was a big influence on Smokey Robinson?
Nolan Strong
Who founded Motown records?
Berry Gordy, Jr.
What music genre was big in Detroit in the 1980s?
hardcore punk rock underground
Which Detroit artist has the highest hip-hop sales?
Eminem
Techno started in which city?
Detroit
What building does the Detroit Symphony Orchestra play in?
Orchestra Hall
What is the name of the art museum in Detroit?
Detroit Institute of Arts
What is the U.S.'s largest museum complex?
The Henry Ford
Which market has the largest open air flowerbed in the US?
Eastern Market
Which parks hosts the Winter Bash?
Campus Martius Park
Who sculpted the Spirit of Detroit?
Marshall Fredericks
How many metropolitan areas boast teams from all major US sports?
12
Which bowl game is held in Detroit?
Little Caesars Pizza Bowl
What is Detroit's sports related nickname?
City of Champions
How many people are on the city council?
nine
Where is the Circuit Court located?
Frank Murphy Hall of Justice
What was Detroit's murder rate in 2014?
43.4 per 100,000
What fraction of Michigan's homicides occurred in Detroit?
two-thirds
When was Detroit incorporated?
1802
Who was Michigan's governor in 2013?
Rick Snyder
What research university is located in Midtown?
Wayne State University
What Seminary is located in Detroit?
Sacred Heart Major Seminary
How many Catholic high schools are in Detroit?
three
Under which agreement are Detroit's major newspapers published?
Detroit Newspaper Partnership
What newspaper was founded in 1935?
Michigan Chronicle
How many major hospitals are in Detroit?
over a dozen
Detroit Medical Center has become a part of what Health System?
Vanguard Health Systems
Who is the Transport Minister in Canada?
Lisa Raitt
Which Interstate is the major north-south route?
I-75
What is I-94 called?
Edsel Ford Freeway
Which highway is an extension of the Chrysler Freeway?
I-375
 How does the Cambridge English Dictionary define "Culture" in short?
the way of life
Around when were humans able to understand to some degree what culture really meant?
50,000 years ago
What was sometimes used or worn by early humans to form some type of culture visibly?
body modification, clothing or jewelry
What does the term "Count Noun" mean?
a culture
What is the modern term "culture" based on?
term used by the Ancient Roman orator Cicero
What changes do Social conflicts along with developing of technologies have on culture? 
social dynamics and promoting new cultural models
What may impact social dynamics and technical development?
War or competition over resources
Who said the following statement? "Enlightenment is man's emergence from his self-incurred immaturity".
Immanuel Kant
Which Prussian linguist called for an anthropology?
Wilhelm von Humboldt
According to Bastian, what did he believe all human societies shared?
elementary ideas
What did culture refer to in practice?
élite ideal
How did Matthew Arnold view "Culture" with?
anarchy
What type of music did critics associate with corrupt high culture?
folk music
Who's definition of culture did anthropologist  accept?
Tylor's
Who referred to culture as a cultivation of individuals?
Georg Simmel
Where did sociology culture stem from?
Weimar Germany
Which three early theorist helped shape sociology of culture?
Marx, Durkheim, and Weber
Which scientist was influenced by Marxism in the United Kingdom?
Stuart Hall (1932–2014) and Raymond Williams (1921–1988)
In the U.S what does "Cultural Studies" focus largely on in this field?
popular culture
Who did Stuart Hall work along side with?
Paul Willis, Dick Hebdige, Tony Jefferson, and Angela McRobbie
The idea of text in cultural studies can include what forms other than written language?
films, photographs, fashion or hairstyles
Around when did the United States and United Kingdom began to develop different versions of cultural studies?
late 1970s
Which two wrote Cultural studies [were] grounded in a pragmatic, liberal-pluralist tradition?
Lindlof and Taylor
How many ways did Raimon Panikkar believed cultural change can be based on?
29 ways
What is the third hottest desert in the world?
The Sahara
What is the central part of the Sahara Desert?
hyperarid
What sea is North of the Sahara Desert?
Mediterranean Sea
What is to the south of the Sahara?
Sahel
What is the world's largest low latitude hot desert?
Sahara
What allows unhindered light and thermal radiation?
dissolution of clouds
What section of the Sahara's cloud cover are the most   accentuated?
eastern
What is blocked due to local surface low pressure?
air ascent
What is the primary source of rain in the Sahara?
low-pressure systems
What is the largest hottest continuously large area   worldwide?
the Great Desert
What is the reason the northern fringe receives more   cloudiness and rainfall?
low pressure systems
Which directions does the South Saharan run?
east and west
What is the number of plants in the Central Sahara?
five hundred species
How many cheetahs remain in the Northwest Africa area?
250
What activities from these mammals will likely affect   habitat areas?
human activities
When did people start living on the edge of the desert?
ice age
During what era was the central Sudan rich in environment?
Neolithic Era
What were Egyptians herding in the early BCE period?
cattle
By What time period was the Sahara dry like it is today?
3400 BCE
Where did the Greeks established their trading colonies?
Red Sea
What time period did the Garamantes arrive in?
500 BCE
What group of people ruled the northern shoes of the   Sahara?
Byzantine Empire
During the 1500 who was a valued part of the Ottoman   Empire?
Egypt
What time period did the colonialism of the Sahara begin?
19th century
What is the most common dialect spoken in the Sahara?
Arabic
Which Scottish theologian is first credited with using the phrase "rule of law"?
Samuel Rutherford
In what forms of government are leaders not held to the same laws as ordinary citizens?
autocracy, dictatorship, or oligarchy
On what principle did the Ancient Greeks first think was best for governance? 
rule by the best men
In which book of the Bible are limitations on Jewish monarchs outlined?
Deuteronomy
To what did English Chief Justice Sir Edward Coke compare the law?
golden met-wand
What is another word for a thin definition?
formalist
According to legal theorists, what characteristics must the rule of law have?
generality, equality, and certainty
Which interpretation of the rule of law is used on a larger scale?
formal
According to the functional interpretation, what principle is opposite of the rule of man?
rule of law
For how many countries have rule of law aggregate measurements been developed?
more than 200 countries
According to the Constitution, what is superior to the rules of man?
rule of law
Who disagrees with the ideas proposed by John Harrison?
Law Professor Frederick Mark Gedicks
When was a compromise reached over administrative procedures for law determination?
1941
When was the Philadelphia Convention?
1787
What East Asian philosophy emphasized virtuous leadership? 
Confucianism
Which two Asian countries have started to adopt the rule of law?
China and Vietnam
Where has the rule of law been more of a theory than a way of life? 
Thailand
What country has the longest version of a constitution?
India
When did the Declaration of Delhi happen?
1959
When the rule of law become an agenda item for the General Assembly?
1992
What organization works to further the understanding and adherence to the rule of law?
The International Development Law Organization
The impact of the rule of law on what is closely studied?
economic development
What language is spoken in most rule of law countries?
English
What is F.A. Hayek's profession?
economist
What is the highest elevation in Tibet?
Mount Everest
When were the current borders of Tibet established?
18th century
In what year was the Tibetan government abolished?
1959
What is the economy of Tibet dominated by?
subsistence agriculture
What is the Tibetan name for the area?
Bod
How is the ethnic Tibetan region referred to as a modern Standard Chinese exonym?
Zangqu
What is the best-known medieval Chinese name for Tibet?
Tubo
Who is an American Tibetologist?
Elliot Sperling
How many people across the Tibetan Plateau speak 'greater Tibetan'?
approximately 6 million
What is written Tibetan base on?
Classical Tibetan
Where did the Zhang Zhung people migrate from?
Amdo region
Who founded the Tibetan Empire?
Songtsän Gampo
When did Tibet and China sign a peace treaty?
821/822 CE
Which dynasty ruled Tibet through a top-level administrative department?
Mongol Yuan
Who managed religious and regional political affairs?
Tibet
When was the Phagmodrupa Dynasty founded?
Between 1346 and 1354
Who is known for unifying the Tibetan heartland?
5th Dalai Lama
When did the Qing dynasty begin to rule in Tibet?
1720
When did the Qing Qianlong Emperor send a large Chinese army into Tibet?
1792
When did George Bogle come to Shigatse to investigate prospects of trade.
1774
When did a British expedition to Tibet invade the country?
1904
When did the Xinhai Revolution topple the Qing dynasty?
1911–12
Where did the Dalai Lama's government flee to during the 1959 Tibetan Rebellion?
Dharamsala
When did Hu Yaobang visit Tibet?
1980
On which border of Tibet is Mount Everest located?
Nepal
Which mountain is a holy pilgrimage for both Hindus and Tibetans?
Mount Kailash
What is the average annual snowfall in Tibet?
18 inches
Where is Tibet ranked among China's 31 provinces on the UN's Human Development Index?
lowest
In what year was a national conference on Tibet held in China?
2010
How are the original ancestors of the Tibetan people represented?
six red bands in the Tibetan flag
What has a strong influence over all aspect of Tibetans lives?
Religion
What are Tibetan Muslims known as?
Kachee
When did Roman Catholic Jesuits and Capuchins arrive in Tibet from Europe?
17th and 18th centuries
When did Johann Grueber cross Tibet on the way to Nepal?
1661
When did Protestant James Cameron bring the Gospel to the Tibetan people?
1877
Who used to reside in the Potala Palace?
the Dalai Lama
In what languages is Tibetan music often chanted in?
Tibetan or Sanskrit
What is worshipped during Tibet's various festibals?
Buddha
What is the most important crop in Tibet?
barley
What is 'a friendly' another term for?
exhibition game
What type of exhibition game showcases the best players?
all-star games
What were the most common type of matches in the early days of soccer?
friendly matches (or "friendlies")
When do football clubs still play friendlies?
before the start of each season
What do friendlies help international teams prepare for?
the qualifying or final stages of major tournaments
What do friendlies allow managers to experiment with?
team selection and tactics
Where are "exhibition match" and "friendly match" not synonymous?
the UK and Ireland
When did the NFL limit teams to 9 preseason games?
1995–2004
What nationality is the Flying Fathers team?
Canadian
Which states do MLB teams do spring training in?
Arizona or Florida
What development has made it unnecessary for MLB teams to play exhibition games with teams from other leagues?
regular-season interleague play
What concerns have reduced Minor League exhibition games?
worries of injuries to players, along with travel issues
How many preseason games do NBA teams play?
eight
When did the NBA play preseason games against the ABA?
1971 to 1975
What is an example of a corporate sponsor of a basketball team?
Marathon Oil
How many preseason exhibition games does an NFL team play?
four
How many exhibition games did the Arena Football League have per year in the early 2000s?
two
What consideration is more important for college teams than exhibition games?
opinion polling
Major FBS teams can have lopsided victories against what kinds of lesser opponents?
lower-tier FBS, Football Championship, or Division II schools
When is the usual high school academic term?
September–June
How many exhibition events per year does the NASCAR Sprint Cup have?
two
What is the population of Strasbourg in 2012?
768,868
What year was Grande Ile classified as a World Heritage site?
1988
What river is on the border of France and Germany?
River Rhine
What was Strasbourg called in 12 BC?
Argentoratum
What has been found along the current Route des Romains? 
Roman artifacts
What Empire split to create France and Germany?
Carolingian Empire
In what year did Strasbourg declare itself a free republic? 
1332
Who was the political guide during the Protestant Reformation? 
Jacob Sturm von Sturmeck
How many times was the Rhines bridge used during the Franco-Dutch War?
three
What was one of the causes of the War of the Reunions? 
annexation
What revoked Strasbourg's status as a free city? 
French Revolution
Who bombarded the city of Strasbourg? 
Prussian army
In what year was the city annexed to the German Empire?
1871
What was established around the city?  
fortifications
In what war was the German Empire defeated? 
World War I
What year was it restituted to France?  
1919
Who invaded Poland on 1 September 1939? 
German
In what year was the Fall of France?
1940
Who led the first Alsatian resistance movement?  
Marcel Weinum
What were the men and women sent to the eastern front against their will called? 
Malgré-nous
What council was the city given a seat for in 1949? 
Council of Europe
What was partly destroyed by Allied bombings in 1944? 
Romanesque Église Saint-Étienne
How many museums does the Palais Rohan hold? 
three
What kind of high class building does Strasbourg offer? 
eclecticist
What is the fine Art Nouveau villa called? 
Villa Schutzenberger
Who designed the Parc de l'Orangerie? 
André le Nôtre
Where are old master paintings from the Germanic Rhenish territories until 1681 held? 
Musée de l'Œuvre Notre-Dame
What is Strasbourg known as?
centre of humanism
What is the second largest library in France? 
Bibliothèque nationale et universitaire
What are incunabula's? 
documents printed before 1500
What year did the Strasbourg tramway open? 
1994
What year was the Canal de la Bruche added? 
1682
What system also complements walking and biking? 
tram
What route parallels the Rhine? 
A35 autoroute
What is the Cherokee name for Oklahoma?
Asgaya gigageyi
What language does the name Oklahoma come from?
Choctaw
Where does Oklahoma rank by land area?
20th
How far out of alignment is Oklahoma's western edge from Texas's border?
2.1 to 2.2 miles
What plateau is Oklahoma near?
Ozark Plateau
How many major mountain ranges are in Oklahoma?
four
What is an example of a mesa range?
Glass Mountains
How much of Oklahoma is covered in forests?
24 percent
What types of birds does Oklahoma have a lot of?
quail, doves, cardinals, bald eagles, red-tailed hawks, and pheasants
How large is the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve?
39,000 acres
What is Oklahoma's main climate region?
humid subtropical
What is Oklahoma's record high temperature for Nov 11?
83 °F
What parts of Oklahoma are in a humid subtropical climate?
central, southern and eastern
Which season is the most dry in Oklahoma?
winter
What parts of Oklahoma rarely see below-zero temperatures?
south-central and southeastern
Ancestors of which tribes lived in Oklahoma?
Wichita and Caddo
What was the "Oil Capital of the World"?
Tulsa
When did the Dust Bowl begin?
1930s
When was the Oklahoma City Bombing?
April 19, 1995
When did Oklahoma declare an official language?
2010
What is Oklahoma's fourth most popular language?
German
What is the conservative Evangelical Christian region called?
the "Bible Belt"
How does Oklahoma rank among US states for producing natural gas?
third
What is Oklahoma's rank among states producing crude oil?
fifth
Which largest private oil companies are based in Oklahoma City?
Devon Energy Corporation, Chesapeake Energy Corporation, and SandRidge Energy Corporation
How many famous Native American ballerinas came from Oklahoma?
five
Where is 'Discoveryland!'?
Sand Springs
What major theater groups are in Oklahoma City?
Oklahoma City Theatre Company, Carpenter Square Theatre, Oklahoma Shakespeare in the Park, and CityRep
How many museums are in Oklahoma?
more than 300
Where does Oklahoma have a fine Egyptian art collection?
Mabee-Gerrer Museum of Art in Shawnee
When was Oklahoma's centennial year?
2007
How long is the State Fair of Oklahoma?
10-day
When did the Medieval Fair of Norman begin?
1976
How many students were in Oklahoma's public schools in 2008?
638,817
Who said Oklahoma's pre-K program is the best in the US?
National Institute for Early Education Research
How many public universities does Oklahoma have?
eleven
How many undergrad students were in Oklahoma in 2007?
181,973
Which Native American group is involved in a language preservation project?
Cherokee Nation
What is the only major league sports team in Oklahoma?
Oklahoma City Thunder
Which NBA team temporarily relocated to Oklahoma?
New Orleans Hornets
How many NCAA Division I colleges does Oklahoma have?
four
What kind of tournaments does Cedar Ridge Country Club host?
LPGA
How many major newspapers does Oklahoma have?
two
How many miles of highways are in Oklahoma?
More than 12,000
What is the largest commercial airport in Oklahoma?
Will Rogers World Airport
How many ports does Oklahoma have?
Two
How many district courts does Oklahoma have?
77
Who is in the executive branch?
the Governor, their staff, and other elected officials
How many county commissioners does each Oklahoma county have?
three
How many tribal governments are in Oklahoma?
Thirty-nine
What political party rose to power in Oklahoma in 1948?
Republican
How many US House reps did Oklahoma have before the 2000 census?
six
How many incorporated cities are in Oklahoma?
598
What is Oklahoma's largest city?
Oklahoma City
What state House bill would change Oklahoma's motto to 'Oklahoma - In God We Trust'?
HCR 1024
In what geographic area was the country of India established?
Indian subcontinent
For how long have modern humans lived on the Indian subcontinent?
75,000 years
What empire conquered most of the subcontinent in the 3rd and 4th centuries BC?
Maurya Empire
Between what centuries was the Tripartite struggle focused on Kannauj?
7th and 11th
What group founded the Delhi Sultanate in the 13th century?
Central Asian Turks
What company annexed large areas of India in the 18th and 19th centuries?
British East India Company
Who remarked Indian history is too devoted to the ranking of dynasties and invasions?
Romila Thapar
By what era was India inhabited by humans of some form?
Middle Pleistocene
What geologic period came after the Mesolithic period in India?
Neolithic
When did the Mature Indus Civilization thrive? 
2600 to 1900 BCE
For what culture is the Vedic period named?
Indo-Aryan
When did the Aryan culture begin its expansion?
Rigvedic period
What was the first state size society in the Vedic period?
Kuru kingdom
What were the principle texts of Hinduism?
Vedas
What philosophical movement appeared during 800-200 BCE?
Shramana-movement
By what age had many small states covered the subcontinent?
later Vedic Age
Where was the Vajji confederation located?
Vaishali
When were the earliest Upanishads composed?
7th and 6th centuries BC
What did the shramana movements challenge?
orthodoxy of rituals
Of what was Magadha one of sixteen?
Mahā-Janapadas
Where is the earliest mention of Magadha people?
Atharva-Veda
What Persian king wanted tribute from the tribes of northern India?
Cyrus the Great
When did Alexander the Great reach India?
326 BC
What was the first empire to unify India?
Maurya Empire
What are the basic written records of the Mauryans?
Arthashastra and the Edicts of Ashoka
During what period did Tamil literature thrive?
Sangam period
What empire covered most of India from 230 BCE?
Śātavāhana Empire
What was the time span of the Shunga Empire?
187 to 78 BCE
What Kalingan ruler brought the Chedi dynasty back into power?
Khārabēḷa
From what area did the Kushan Empire come?
Afghanistan
By what is India under the Gupta Empire referered?
Classical India
What did the Guptas promote in their reigns?
Indian culture
During what time did Kadamba rule northern Karnataka?
345 – 525 CE
What type of trib were the Hephthalites?
nomadic confederation
In which century did the Gupta Empire fall?
middle of the 6th century
What declined from the 5th to the 13th centuries
Śrauta sacrifices
What cults weakened Buddhism in India?
Vishnu and Shiva
How many dynasties fought for control from the 8th to the 10th century?
three
When did the Chalukya Empire rule?
6th and the 12th centuries
When was the Rastrakuta Empire started?
753
During what span of time did the Pala Empire thrive?
750–1174 CE
What area did the Cholas unite in the 9th century?
South India
During waht centuries did the Western Chalukya rule?
10th and 12th
What group wanted to conquer India from earliest times?
Muslims
In what year did Muslim general Muhammad bin Qasim take over most of the Indus area?
712
In what areas of India were Islamic kingdoms formed over a period of centuries?
Afghanistan and Pakistan
Until what century did the Kabul Shahi dynasties rule the Kabul Valley?
9th century
In what id Jayapala see a danger to his dynasty?
consolidation of the Ghaznavids
In what year was Jaipal again soundly defeated by the Muslims?
1001
From where did raiders come to attack the agrarian Indians?
Central Asia
What conquered large areas of northern India?
Slave dynasty of Delhi
What Turko-Mongol attacked and defeated the Sultan of Tughlaq dynasty?
Timur
In what year was Sangama Dynasty formed?
1336
From the mid 13th century, what dominated politics in northern India?
Delhi Sultanate
What kingdom came to power in Assam?
Ahom Kingdom
What empire did Babur found in northern India?
Mughal Empire
By what date did the Mughal dynasty rule most of India?
1600
What groups invaded and damaged the Mughals?
Marathas and Afghans
What was the richest of all the dynasties?
The Mughals
The rise of what dynasty followed the era of the Mughals?
Maratha suzerainty
By when had the Maratha kingdom become an empire?
early 18th century
Followers what religion were the rulers of the Punjabi Kingdom?
Sikh religion
To what Kingdom did many small kingdoms pay tribute?
Marathas
In what country was the trading base for the Dutch?
Ceylon
What ruler opposed the British use of permits and ended up at war?
Nawab of Bengal Siraj Ud Daulah
What whole region did the East India company get control over after the Carnatic Wars?
Carnatic
What did the soldiers rebel against in the Indian Rebellion of 1857?
Company's rule
To what entity was all the power of the East India Company transferred?
British Crown
What did the Colonial government expand by legal means?
infrastructure
What administer divided the province of Bengal in half?
Lord Curzon
What was the social reform movement centered in Bengal in the 19th to early 20th century?
Bengali Renaissance
What did the Bengali Renaissance resemble?
Renaissance in Europe
What were said to have been caused by government policy failures?
famines
What movement rose in the 19th century?
Indian nationalism
What appointments were  the first step in Indian self-rule?
councillors
What Indian leader said that Swaraj was his birthright?
Bal Gangadhar Tilak
What leader started a mass movement against British rule?
Mahatma Gandhi
What position did Muslims have in the Indian population?
minority
What number president of Egypt was Nasser?
second
How many mourners attended Nasser's funeral?
five million
Name two infrastructure projects Nasser spearheaded.
Aswan Dam and Helwan City
What was Nasser's father's occupation?
postal worker
What elementary school did Nasser attend?
Attarin
What school did Nasser attend in Cairo?
al-Nahda al-Masria
How many days did Nasser attend classes in his senior year?
45
What did Nasser do in his spare time?
reading
What political theory fascinated Nasser?
Egyptian nationalism
What was Nasser's goal?
a military career
What's another term for influential intermediary?
wasta
In what year was Nasser posted to Sudan?
1941
Where was the Egyptian army sent in 1948?
Palestine
What Egyptian singer performed at the return of Nasser's brigade?
Umm Kulthum
What did Nasser do after the war ended?
instructor at the Royal Military Academy
What people had a coup around the time Nasser returned to Egypt?
Syrian
What group boycotted the 1950 elections?
Muslim Brotherhood
What treaty did the Wafd government abrogate?
Anglo-Egyptian Treaty
Who was nominated to the presidency of the Officer's Club?
Sirri Amer
In what year did riots cause the political situation in Egypt to rapidly deteriorate? 
1952
What type of government did the Free Officer's want to establish?
parliamentary democracy
Who was the first president of the Republic of Egypt?
Naguib
What group rioted at the textile factories?
communist
What was Nasser's first title in the Liberation Rally?
secretary-general
Who resigned in 1954?
Naguib
What group went on strike as a result of the turmoil?
transport workers
What event did Nasser exploit to his advantage?
assassination attempt
What was too small to keep Nasser in power?
street following
What country did Nasser make secret agreements with?
Israel
What agreement ran contrary to Nasser's efforts?
Baghdad Pact
What document was meant to resolve lingering issues of colonialism?
Final Communique
What political philosophy did Nasser adopt?
positive neutralism
In what year did Egypt get a new constitution?
1956
Who could approve or reject candidates for the National Assembly?
Nasser
With what two nations did Nasser's foreign policy clash?
UK and France
How did Nasser react to the news the the US and UK had blocked construction of th Aswan Dam?
took great offense
What did Nasser propose to do with funds from the nationalized Suez Canal?
fund the Aswan Dam
How did the Arab world react to news of the nationalization of the Suez Canal?
support
What nations were outraged by the nationalization scheme?
France and the UK
In what year did battle over the Suez Canal commence?
1956
How many Egyptian soldiers died during the fighting?
2,000
How many Egyptians died in the battle for Port Said?
Between 750 and 1,000
What country was opposed to the invasion of the canal?
U.S.
What radio station furthered Nasser's agenda?
Voice of the Arabs
What was the policy meant to contain communism in the middle east?
Eisenhower Doctrine
What leader accused Nasser of trying to overthrow him?
King Hussein
What nations' assets did Nasser nationalize in 1957?
British and French
What country wanted to join with Egypt?
Syria
Who tried to assassinate Nasser?
King Saud
How many members were in the National Assembly?
600
Who was Nasser's opponent in Lebanon?
Camille Chamoun
What two men overthrew the Iraqi monarchy?
Abdel Karim Qasim and Abdel Salam Aref
Who did Nasser appoint to run Syria?
Sarraj
What Iraqi leader clashed with Nasser?
Qasim
What Syrian social group opposed the UAR?
elites
What Syrian anti-Nasser group lauched a coup?
secessionist army units
What country experienced a coup in 1962?
North Yemen
What groups completed a coup in Iraq?
Ba'athist–Nasserist alliance
What river did the Israelis want to divert?
Jordan River
In what year was the Non-Aligned Movment formed?
1961
What continent did Nasser help to attain political stability?
African
What country did Nasser want to be the leader of the Arab world?
Egypt
What military entity did Nasser create in 1961?
Presidential Council
From whom did Nasser want to seize control of Egypt's military?
Amer
What political ideology did Nasser wholeheartedly back in 1961?
socialism
What percentage of business did the Egyptian government own in 1962?
51
What was Nasser's political opposition like in the 1965 election?
He was the only candidate
What country warned Nasser that Israel wanted to attack Syria?
Soviet Union
What thoroughfare did Amir want Nasser to block?
Straits of Tiran
What defeat opened Nasser's eyes to the desperation of Egypt's situation?
Sharm el-Sheikh
What propaganda were Arab media broadcasting at the beginning of the war?
imminent Arab victory
Who did Nasser appoint as the new head of Egypt's armed forces?
Mohamed Fawzi
Where was the Arab League summit held?
Khartoum
What new positions did Nasser give himself ?
prime minister and supreme commander of the armed forces
What organization was to undergo a big overhaul?
ASU
What was the endeavor to reclaim territory from Israel called?
War of Attrition
What did Nasser do to respond to Israeli attacks?
build a network of internal defenses
What was the American plan to end conflict with Israel?
Rogers Plan
When did Nasser die?
28 September 1970
How many people attended Nasser's funeral?
at least five million
How many eople died in Breuit because of unrest caused by Nasser's death?
Over a dozen
What did Nasser completely eliminate from Egypt?
British influence
What reform, initiated by Nasser, caused the Egyptian economy to grow?
agrarian
What type of political parties came about when Mubarek was president?
Nasserist
What was Nasser known for in regard to ordinary citizens?
availability to the public
Who was most critical of Nasser's rule?
Egyptian intellectuals
Whad did Nasser's enemies call him?
dictator
What Egyptian party dismissed Nasser's popular appeal?
New Wafd Party
What did Nasser's political style render unnecessary?
intermediaries
Who was Nasser's vice president?
Zakaria Mohieddin
What did other Arab leaders have to do to gain admiration of their populations?
seek good relations with Egypt
Who was Algeria's first president, a fervent Nasserist?
Ben Bella
What 1963 film compared Nasser to Saladin?
El Nasser Salah El Dine
Who did Nasser marry in 1944?
Tahia Kazem
What was Nasser's principle vice?
chain smoking
What was Pope Saint John XXIII's birth name?
Angelo Giuseppe Roncalli
How old was Roncalli when elected pope?
76
When did the pope die?
3 June 1963
When is his feast day celebrated?
11 October
When did Pietro Gasparri summon him to the Vatican?
February 1925
When was he appointed Apostolic Delegate to Turkey and Greece?
30 November 1934
When did he hear that his mother was dying?
February 1939
When was he appointed Patriarch of Venice?
12 January 1953
When was his sister Ancilla diagnosed with stomach cancer?
the early 1950s
When did Pope Pius XII die?
9 October 1958
Who was the Archbishop of Milan?
Giovanni Battista Montini
When was the final ballot of the conclave?
4:00 pm
What did John XXIII call for?
an ecumenical council
John XXIII was an advocate for what?
human rights
John XXIII continued the gradual reform of what?
the Roman liturgy
Where was the first session of the Second Vatican Council held?
in the Vatican
A solemn ceremony ended the first session on what day?
8 December 1962
John XXIII offered to mediate between who?
US President John F. Kennedy and Nikita Khrushchev
John XXIII received what prize on 10 May 1963?
Balzan Prize
What did the pope suffer on 25 May 1963?
haemorrhage
Who was at the dying pope's bedside?
Petrus Canisius Van Lierde
What did John XXIII die of?
peritonitis
Who posthumously awarded his the Presidential Medal of Freedom?
US President Lyndon B. Johnson
What was he also known as?
Good Pope John
When was the 50th anniversary of his death?
3 June 2013
Time has long been a major point of study in which fields?
religion, philosophy, and science
According to one of the main viewpoints of time, time is part of the fundamental structure of what?
the universe
Time is one of how many fundamental physical quantities?
seven
What has been a prime motivation in astronomy and navigation?
Temporal measurement
What is a mathematical tool used for organizing intervals of time?
the calendar
Artifacts from which era suggest that the moon was used to reckon time around 6,000 years ago?
the Paleolithic
What was the most accurate clock-like device in the ancient world?
the water clock, or clepsydra
Which device uses the flow of sand to measure time?
The hourglass
Which timekeeping devices are the most accurate?
atomic clocks
Which standard of time started with British Railways?
Greenwich Mean Time
How many main viewpoints divide many philosophers?
Two
What are the earliest texts of Indian/Hindu philosophy?
The Vedas
Who commented on the nature of time in Book 11 of his confessions?
St. Augustine of Hippo
In what did Immanuel Kant describe time as a priori intuition that allows humankind to understand sense experience?
the Critique of Pure Reason
Who suggested that humankind does not exist inside time, but is time?
Martin Heidegger
Minkowski spacetime combines the three dimensions of space with what?
a single dimension of time
What Newtonian concept can be used in the formulation of an idea for the synchronization of clocks?
concept of "relative, apparent, and common time"
Historically, time has been closely related with what?
space
How does the crew on board the spaceship perceive the stationary observer?
slowed down and flattened along the spaceship's direction of travel
Who showed, in his thought experiments, that people travelling at different speeds measured time differently?
Einstein
What laws do not specify an arrow of time?
the laws of physics
In which publication does Hawking say that any events that existed before the Big Bang would not be accessible to us?
A Brief History of Time
The Big Bang model is solidly established in what?
cosmology
How long has time travel been a topic in science fiction?
since the 19th century
What is another solution to the problem of temporal paradoxes?
paradoxes cannot arise simply because they have not arisen
What type of drugs can impair the judgement of time?
Psychoactive drugs
The use of time is important in understanding what?
human behavior, education, and travel behavior
What may the description of events include?
a timestamp
Uses of sequences of events include what?
stories, historical events (chronology), directions and steps in procedures, and timetables
What former managing director od Goldman Sachs international division is president of The European Central Bank?
Mario Draghi
What is the main mission of the ECB?
maintain price stability within the Eurozone
Who was the first president of the ECB?
Wim Duisenberg
What is price stability defined as?
inflation of under 2%
What happens when a lot of repo notes come due?
increase in liquidity in the economy
How does a bank make sure that they can participate in auctions?
must be able to offer proof of appropriate collateral in the form of loans to other entities
Who is responsible for overseeing all monetary policy?
The Executive Board
Who did the Spanish want to take José Manuel González-Páramo's seat on the board?
Antonio Sáinz de Vicuña
What does the Supervisory Board discuss at it's meetings?
discuss, plan and carry out the ECB’s supervisory tasks
What governs the ECB?
European law
What language does the ECB generally use?
English
WHat is the biggest factor in the ECB maintaining price stability?
independence
When did the European debt Crisis begin?
2009
Which countries didn't want to go around the bail-out clause and have to shoulder the burden of backing the defaulters debts.
financially stable eurozone states like Germany
What term was coined when Greece left the eurozone?
Grexit
What would cause the private banking system to weaken?
if the debt rescheduling causes losses on loans held by European banks
Who retains ownership of the collateral until the debt is paid?
ECB
What debt did the ECB focus on abtaining?
Spanish and Italian
How does sterilisation help to keep the money flow even?
highly valued assets are sold at the same time that the weaker assets are purchased
By 2012, how much did the ECB spend in covering bad debt?
€212.1bn
What can be shuffeled around during a soverign debt crisis to mitigate the damage?
temporarily moving bad or weak assets
What is being caused by links between soverign debt and failing national banks?
the sickness of the euro
What did the ECB do to help stabilise the financial system during the subprime mortgage crisis?
loaned billions of euros to banks
What is a perk of the central bank?
it can make as much money as it deems needed
Which agencies have became the authority on assessing the risk of financial institutions?
Moody's and S&P
Where is the European Central bank located?
Frankfurt
After the loan program was announced, which countries borrowed the most?
Greece, Ireland, Italy and Spain
What is an LTRO?
longer-term refinancing operation
In what country is St. John's located?
Canada
Which city is considered one of the oldest settlements in North America?
St. John's
What was John Cabot's sons first name?
Sebastian
What year did John Rut visit St. John's?
1527
Who referred St. John's as St. "the principal prime and chief lot in all the whole country" ? 
William Payne
Who briefly seized St. John's in 1665?
Michiel de Ruyter
Who flew the first non-stop transatlantic aircraft flight?
Alcock and Brown
When did the Northern cod fishery collapse?
1990s
Near what body of water is St. John's located by?
Atlantic Ocean
How is the climate in St. John's?
humid
What is the foggiest Canadian city?
St. John's
What are wharves in St. John's constructed out of?
wood
What US city is St. John's often compared to?
San Francisco
What was amended to provide more office space in downtown?
heritage regulations
In what year where there 100,646 inhabitants in St. John's?
2006
What is the largest religion in St. John's?
Christian
What is supported by the federal, provincial and municipal governments?
civil service
What has been growing in the recent years?
economy
Where is the Resource Centre for the Arts?
The LSPU Hall
Where is Pippy Park located in the city?
east end
What part of the city is Bannerman Park located by?
downtown
What city does Signal Hill overlook?
St. John's
Where do The Rock play their home games at?
Swilers Rugby Park
What was Canada's  tenth province?
Newfoundland
By how much did crime in St. John's increase in 2009?
4%
How far is St. John's International Airport from the downtown core?
10 minutes
Where is the eastern terminus of the Trans-Canada Highway?
St. John's
How many routes does the Metrobus have?
19
How many private schools are in St. John's?
three
Where does Rogers Cable has its provincial headquarters?
St. John's
How many radio station does the city have?
15
What year was the PlayStation 3 released?
2006
What shape was the Sixaxis prototype in?
boomerang
How many USB ports did the original PS3 prototype have?
six
Which region experience a setback that pushed back the release of the PlayStation 3?
PAL
Instead of November, for what month of the following year was the release rescheduled?
March
What was the model number of the slim version of the PlayStation 3?
CECH-2000
At what event did Sony tell everyone about the CECH-4000?
Tokyo Game Show
How many games could you buy to go with your PS3 when it launched in North America?
14
Which Ratchet & Clank title debuted at E3 2007?
Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction
What's Sony's budget line of PS3 games called in Japan?
The Best
What company said it would bring 3D technology to the PS3?
Blitz Games
What operating system does Fixstars Solutions offer for the PlayStation 3?
Yellow Dog Linux
What type of microprocessor is in a PS3?
Cell
What did Sony name their vibrating PS3 controller?
DualShock 3
How is "XrossMediaBar" abbreviated?
XMB
What does the abbreviation "NDRM" represent?
Network Digital Rights Management
What application lets PS3 users view and organize photographs?
Photo Gallery
In what month of 2009 did VidZone start free service to some countries?
June
What functionality did the PlayStation 3 lose in version 3.21 of its firmware update?
'OtherOS'
What part of the original model PS3s starting causing problems in March of 2010?
internal system clock
By what date did Sony correct the issue with the system clock?
March 2 (UTC), 2010
What PS3 game can integrate a PlayStation Portable to use as a rear-view mirror?
Formula One Championship Edition
In what city did Sony hold their 2006 PlayStation Business Briefing?
Tokyo
What's the name of Sony's exclusive PlayStation Network subscription service?
PlayStation Plus
Where can you buy downloadable content for the PSP and PS3?
The PlayStation Store
What new feature for PS3 was released in September of 2009?
What's New
How many  different sections does What's New have?
four
What does Sony call their social network?
PlayStation Home
Life was able to personalize information for users by what location division?
city
What was the date Sony shut down the PS Network because of a security breach?
April 20, 2011
What was PlayStation 3's toughest competitor in the video game market?
Wii
How much did it cost to make one 20 GB PS3?
US$805.85
Who was Sony's CEO at the start of 2008?
Kaz Hirai
Along with a drop in the cost of hardware, PS3 has gotten cheaper to make because what chip was phased out?
Emotion Engine chip
What rating did Ars Technica initially give PlayStation 3?
6/10
What list by PC World ranked PlayStation eighth, in a bad way?
"The Top 21 Tech Screwups of 2006"
In what year did Gabe Newell call the PS3 "a total disaster"?
2007
What group does Bobby Kotick think is being discouraged from working on the PS3?
developers
What score did CNET give the PS3 out of ten?
8.8
With a day of its release, on what website did the PS3 Slim become the number-one bestseller?
Amazon.com
What aspect of the PS3 Slim was CNET unhappy was missing for PS2 games?
backward compatibility
What quality of the PS3 Super Slim was the website Spong excited about?
quietness
What website rated the Super Slim four out of five stars?
CNET
What magazine described the Super Slim as "nostalgic"?
T3
When royal assent takes place in the UK, where does the sovereign make an appearance?
House of Lords
Royal assent is a process of approving a nation's legislative acts by whom?
constitutional monarch
Modern-day sovereigns often acts on the advice of whom?
ministers
What is another name for "Curia Regis"?
Royal Council
Which monarch was responsible for dissolving parliament in 1629?
Charles I
During whose rule was power transferred more to parliament?
Hanoverian dynasty
In Scotland, who is responsible for submitting a bill for royal assent?
Presiding Officer of the Scottish Parliament
What was the name of the method by which Wales passed legislation in the 2000's?
Measures
The sovereign grants assent by which order?
Order in Council
Under ancient custom, an Act of Tynwald didn't go into effect until decreed at which location?
Tynwald Hill at St John's
Since 1993, which body has had power to enact measures?
Sodor and Man Diocesan Synod
In the Canadian federal government, who is typically responsible for deciding wether to give assent?
the Governor General of Canada
Which year was royal assent last withheld in the UK?
1708
The bill from the Australian House of Representatives was mistakenly sent and assented to by whom in 1976?
Governor-General
What term refers to the legislature of the Isle of man?
Tynwald
In Commonwealth realms, who is the representative of the sovereign?
the governor-general
What two documents declared all Commonwealth realms as sovereign kingdoms?
Balfour Declaration of 1926 and the Statute of Westminster 1931
Which Houses in the UK must approve a bill before it is assented?
House of Commons and the House of Lords
In what language does the Clerk of the Parliaments announce Parliament's decision?
Anglo-Norman Law French
When assention was formally granted in person, who read the titles of the bills?
The Clerk of the Crown
Why did Henry VIII wish to execute his fifth wife?
committing adultery
How many lords are usually present during assent by Commissioner?
five
During which decade was assention by commission discontinued?
the 1960s
What is unique about the method used for assention allowed by the Royal Assent Act 1967?
does not require both houses to meet jointly
When assent is granted in person, when is it formally considered final?
when the assent is declared in the presence of both houses jointly assembled
Whose responsibility is it to assure that assent has been granted?
Clerk of the Parliaments
In what year did the New Zealand governor-general last personally grant the royal assent in parliament?
1875
When did Canada finally cease to use the traditional ceremony for granting assent as regular practice?
the 21st century
From where is the sovereign typically forbidden?
House of Commons
What is royal assent called in Belgium?
sanction royale
How much time does a Jordinian leader have to sign or veto legislation?
six months
What text is written and sent to the Senate if the House approves of a law?
"The Second Chamber of the States General sends the following approved proposal of law to the First Chamber"
Where are laws published after receiving assent?
the State Magazine
Which articles in the Norwegian Constitution allow the monarch to reject a bill that has been passed through the Sorting?
Articles 77–79
Which article in the Spanish constitution gives the monarch the right to ask for a referendum?
Article 92
What was King Juan Carlos' response to the media when asked if he would sign a bill supporting same-sex marriage?
"Soy el Rey de España y no el de Bélgica"
If the Spanish monarch is deemed incapable of granting assent, who is the power transferred to?
the next person of age in the line of succession
Which articles allow the soverign to refise consent even when the bills have been passed through the Legislative assembly?
41 and 68
What is an arithmetical structure comprising of a set of elements including an operation that joins any two elements to form a third element?
a group
What shares an essential relationship to groups?
symmetry
Where did the idea of a group come from?
the study of polynomial equations,
What is known as underlying set of the group?
The set
What sends a point in the square to the relating point under the symmetry? 
functions
 Which French mathematician expanded on earlier work of Paolo Ruffini and Joseph-Louis Lagrange?
Évariste Galois
When did the uniform theory of groups develop from different sources? 
1870
Where did the group of theorists first meet?
The University of Chicago
What ideas are used to understand groups beyond symbols?
structural concepts
What are two groups called if they include homomorphisms?
isomorphic
What is composed of two rotations?
a rotation
When is it preferable to consider two group elements to be the same?
irrelevant to the question whether a reflection has been performed
What is another term for coset multiplication?
coset addition
What groups can be combined to describe every group?
is the quotient of the free group over the generators of the group
What map shows the relation between sub and quotient groups?
injective map
What are usually analyzed by associating groups to them and studying the elements of the corresponding groups?
Mathematical objects
What positive integer is used to divide the sum of two positive integers in modular mathematics?
the modulus
What term describes the group of integers related to a prime number?
modulo p
What is a group labeled when the element 1 is primitive?
cyclic
What are groups consisting of symmetries of given arithmetic concepts?
Symmetry groups
What aids in predicting changes of physical traits?
group theory
What are examples of finite symmetry groups used in coding theory?
Mathieu groups
What groups combine matrices with matrix multiplication?
Matrix groups
What degree does not include simple formulas for cubic and quatric equations?
degree 5 and higher
What does a finite group include?
a finite number of elements
What level of finality do mathematicians try to reach with math concepts? 
complete classification
What group operations must occur for group law and topology to integrate well?
continuous functions
What concepts are fundamental to number theory?
adele rings and adelic algebraic groups
What concept is of basic importance in modern physics?
Lie groups
What product is created if the requirement that every element has an inverse is eliminated?
monoid
Where is the Central African Republic located?
Central Africa
Who established CAR's borders?
France
How long ago did people start living in the area?
Approximately 10,000 years ago
When did the slave trade hit the CAR region?
16th and 17th centuries
When was Equatorial Africa established?
1920
During what war did French officers setup headquarters in CAR?
Second World War
What was the overwhelming amount of votes MESAN captured?
347,000 out of the total 356,000 votes
What caused a violent uprising?
young students protested against Bokassa's decree
What was inspired by the fall of the Berlin wall?
a pro-democracy movement
When was a second democratic election held?
in 1993
When was the new constitution for CAR approved?
28 December 1994
The failed coup caused what effects?
murder of many political opponents
What war started in 2004?
Bush War
What agreement called for the stop of Hostilities?
Syrte Agreement
Who became president in 2013?
Michel Djotodia
What national part is located in the South West?
Dzanga-Sangha National Park
What religious groups operate in CAR?
missionary groups
Due to fighting, what threatened people in the NorthWest?
risk of starvation
When was the new Government seated in CAR?
31 March 2013
What is the per capita income in CAR?
$400 a year
What type of agriculture is popular in the CAR?
food crops
What is the major telecommunications provider in CAR?
Socatel
How are the human rights in the CAR?
poor
What two factors cause asthma?
genetic and environmental factors
Is there a cure for asthma?
There is no cure for asthma
What are the characteristics of asthma?
recurrent episodes of wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and coughing
Do other health concerns happen less frequently or more frequently with asthma?
more frequently
What are some of the enviromental factors that have been linked to asthma?
allergens, air pollution, and other environmental chemicals
What hypothesis tries to explain the increased amount of asthma world wide?
The hygiene hypothesis
What else is a risk factor for asthma?
Family history
What is asthma the result of?
chronic inflammation of the conducting zone of the airways
Is there a universal definition of astham?
there is not one universal agreed upon definition
Is there a test to determine asthma in an individual?
There is currently no precise test
What is recommended to help in the diagnosis of asthma?
Spirometry
What is the rate that is used in most of the evidence?
≥20%
How is asthma clinically classified?
according to the frequency of symptoms, forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), and peak expiratory flow rate
What kind of condition is asthma?
a chronic obstructive condition
Exercise-induced bronchoconstriction is common in what profession?
professional athletes
Asthma that is the result of or made worse by workplace exposure is reported as what?
occupational disease
What is a condition that can cause symptoms of astham in children?
allergic rhinitis and sinusitis
What is a complication of chronic asthma?
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
What is weak that is not helping prevent the development of asthma?
The evidence for the effectiveness of measures to prevent
What is a key component of control and preventing asthma attacks?
Avoidance of triggers
What type of person would use bronchial thermoplasty as an option?
For those with severe persistent asthma not controlled by inhaled corticosteroids and LABAs
What is the prognosis for asthma? 
generally good
By 2011, how many people were affected by asthma?
235–330 million people worldwide are affected by asthma
How much was the average cost of hospital stays for asthma-related issues for children??
about $3,600
When was the first paper written about asthma?
In 1873
Did LaserDisks offer higher or lower quality sound and picture than VHS?
higher-quality
Where was LaserDisc first available?
Atlanta, Georgia
Who purchased the majority stake and re-marketed the product in 1980?
Pioneer Electronics
What product replaced LaserDisc in North America by the early 2000s?
DVD
How large was a standard LaserDisc?
30 cm (12 in) in diameter
What was the length capacity of the CAA55 format?
55 minutes 5 seconds
What was the difference between LaserDisc and LaserVision in the UK?
"LaserVision" is used to refer to discs with analog sound, while "LaserDisc" is used for those with digital audio
What competition caused LaserDisc sales to decline?
DVD's growing popularity
Was sound quality from disc to disc and between players consistent or varied?
varied greatly
Which channel would not work in conjunction with AC-3 audio?
right analog audio channel
Are integrated AC-3 demodulators common in LaserDisc players or a rare find?
rare
Which has a longer playing time: PAL LaserDiscs or NTSC discs?
PAL LaserDiscs
What was the name of the first solid-state laser consumer LaserDisc player?
LD-700
Which three names did MCA use for LaserDisc technology during its development?
Optical Videodisc System, "Reflective Optical Videodisc" or "Laser Optical Videodisc"
What did VLP stand for in English-speaking countries?
Video Long-Play
Which company joined a 50/50 partnership with MCA in 1977?
Pioneer Electronics
What other companies did MCA manufacture discs for?
Paramount, Disney and Warner Bros
How many horizontal TVL lines did LaserDisc have in comparison to VHS's 240?
425
Were Laserdiscs initially cheaper or more costly to produce than their VHS counterparts?
cheaper
Were Laserdiscs or VHS more durable in the long run?
LaserDiscs
How is data stored on DVDs?
digital blocks which make up each independent frame
Do LaserDiscs or DVD use analog video?
LaserDiscs
How does LaserDisc operation vary from DVD?
the transport mechanism always obeys commands from the user
What does the repair+skip feature on newer DVD players do?
filling in unreadable areas of the picture with blank space or a frozen frame of the last readable image and sound
Which format is considered to look most realistic, LaserDisc or DVD?
LaserDisc
What was the vertical blanking interval used for in LaserDiscs, preventing Macrovision signal to be implemented?
internal timing
LaserDisc was the first format to provide what type of releases to consumers?
"Special Edition"
What was required of a LaserDisc to continue playback after 60 minutes?
a disc has to be flipped over in order to continue watching
What video problems on a LaserDisc can be caused by dust or scratches?
glitches, streaks, bursts of static, or momentary picture interruptions
When does "crosstalk" occur?
when the laser optical pickup assembly within the player is out of alignment or because the disc is damaged or excessively warped
In which format does crosstalk generally not occur?
CAV
Is LaserDisc quality consistent or inconsistent between player brands? 
inconsistency
What substandard product was used in LD manufacturing that caused "laser rot"?
adhesive
Why didn't LaserDiscs become popular in North America?
high cost of the players and discs
How much did a LD cost in Hong Kong in the 1990s?
USD100
By what year had DVD taken over the LaserDisc market?
late 1990s
In what decade did Philips produce a "professional" LD model for computer?
early 1980s
How many EditDroid systems were ever built?
24
In what year did the Doomsday project occur?
1986
Which of Apple's programming languages allowed users to ceatively manipulate LaserDiscs?
HyperCard
A combination computer/LD player was comissioned by what government entity?
the U.S. Military
What quality made LDs a consideration for videogames in the 1980s and 1990s?
instant-access capability
With what operating ratio would MUSE Discs operate?
5:3
What was the price for early HDTVs?
US$10,000
What were "Squeeze LDs"?
enhanced 16:9-ratio widescreen LaserDiscs
Which movie was released twice on Squeeze LD?
Terminator 2
What does the acronym RLV stand for?
Recordable LaserVision disc
What is the difference in appearance between an RLV disc and a regular LD?
reflective purple-violet (or blue with some RLV discs) color
In contrast to large LD disks, what is the size of a standard CD?
12 cm (4.7 in)
What were VSDs lacking that CD-Vs included?
audio CD tracks
What kind of symmetry do annelids have?
bilateral
What separates many annelids' segments?
Septa
How do annelids normally reproduce?
sexual reproduction
How do earthworms help the soil they live in?
aeration and enriching
Why are annelid fossils rare?
annelids are soft-bodied
What externally divides annelids' segments?
shallow ring-like constrictions called annuli
What language does the term 'chaetae' come from?
Greek
How are the layers arranged in annelids' cuticles?
spiral in alternating directions
What are parapodia?
limbs
What are cirri?
fused bundles of cilia
What are ganglia?
local control centers
What species group are annelids' muscle control similar to?
arthropods
What kind of things can annelids' sensors detect?
light, chemicals, pressure waves and contact
What are coelomata?
body cavities
How does peristalsis work?
waves of contraction and expansion that sweep along the body
What can coelomocyte cells defend against?
parasites and infections
What type of annelids are very different from others?
leeches and their closest relatives
What does 'everted' mean?
turned inside out to extend
What type of annelids are tube-dwelling?
Siboglinidae
What do metanephridia remove?
soluble waste products
How many sexes of annelids were there originally?
two
How many species of polychaetes have known lifecycles?
about 25%
What do some non-single-sex polychaetes do?
change sex
What annelid group includes leeches and earthworms?
clitellates
Who published a book about worms in 1881?
Charles Darwin
Where were native earthworms killed by glaciers?
glaciated areas of North America
What type of annelid tunnels through coral?
Palolo worm
When did leeches begin being used for blood-letting?
30 AD
When did Cloudina exist?
549 to 542 million years ago
When did the Tertiary period begin?
65 million years ago
What two groups are annelids traditionally divided among?
polychaetes and clitellates
Who compared annelid genes in 2007?
Torsten Struck and colleagues
How many previously-separate phyla did the 2007 study reclassify?
3
What superphylum are annelids in?
protostomes
Which Lophotrochozoa phyla have similar egg development?
annelids, molluscs, nemerteans and flatworms
What does it mean to say that God is omnipotent?
unlimited power
In what belief is God the creator and sustainer of the universe?
theism
What are vocalizations of the name of God, YHWH?
Yahweh and Jehovah
Where is the English word God derived from?
the Proto-Germanic * ǥuđan
What differentiates God from gods?
the capitalized form of God
What type of view do Christians take on God?
trinitarian
What do Muslims believe that Trinitism too closely resembles?
polytheism
What is the basis behind Catholic theology?
God is infinitely simple and is not involuntarily subject to time
What is a deistic view of God?
God exists, but does not intervene in the world beyond what was necessary to create it
What is Pantheism?
God is the universe and the universe is God
What do some non-theists view God as?
a symbol of human values and aspirations
What did Sagan argue was the only was to prove the existence of God?
the discovery that the universe is infinitely old
What does Stephen Hawking and Leonard Mlodinow pose as a better question that "Is there a God"?
who created God
Why does Stewart Guthrie believe that people project their human features onto non human things?
it makes those aspects more familiar
What are ways that small social groups can force morality?
gossip or reputation
How did St. Anselm define the existence of God?
"that than which nothing greater can be conceived"
How does Dawkins interpret evidence for or against the existence of God?
a lack of evidence for the material existence
What is the Omnipotence paradox?
can God create a stone so heavy that he cannot lift it
What do religions share across their belief structures?
similarities arising from their common roots
How is sex by God handled in a monotheistic religion?
God has no counterpart with which to relate sexually
What is a muslims life purpose?
to worship God
Who believe they are the one and only chosen few?
exclusivists
What does it mean if God can't predict the future?
God may not be omniscient.
How does Alvin Plantinga describe faith?
"properly basic"
When did George W. Bush first say 'war on terrorism'?
16 September 2001
What did Obama say the US is at war with, in 2009?
a far-reaching network of violence and hatred
Who said the 'war on terrorism' is 'an entire language of discourse'?
Richard Jackson
Which war gave birth to al-Qaeda?
the Soviet war in Afghanistan
When did al-Qaeda attack the US embassy in Kenya?
7 August 1998
How many planes were hijacked on 9/11?
four
What law was signed on Sep 14, 2001?
Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists
When did the US invade Afghanistan?
October 2001
Where did the Taliban regroup in 2002?
western Pakistan
Where did the USSOC Pacific deploy to in Jan 2002?
Philippines
How many people were killed by US Special Forces on Sep 14, 2009?
two
When did a Mali conflict begin?
January 2012
When did the first Gulf War begin?
1991
When was the first ground attack in the post-9/11 Iraq war?
21 March 2003
Which civil war did the Iraq branch of Al Qaeda begin fighting in?
Syrian
When did Obama launch airstrikes on ISIS?
10 August 2014
Which Pakistan president supported the US attacking the Taliban?
Pervez Musharraf
When did Musharraf give an anti-Islamism speech?
12 January 2002
When did Musharraf arrest Maulana Masood Azhar?
2002
What controversial technology did the US use in Pakistan?
drones
Who wrote 'Letter to American People' in 2002?
Osama bin Laden
Who did a US drone kill in Sep 2009?
Ilyas Kashmiri
Who declared the Partnership Action Plan against Terrorism?
member states of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council
What were the countries who supported the US's post-9/11 invasions called?
the "coalition of the willing"
What was the primary fighting force in southern Afghanistan?
The British 16th Air Assault Brigade
What new agency did Bush create after 9/11?
Department of Homeland Security
When was the Patriot Act passed?
October 2001
When did the ACLU first challenge the Patriot Act?
30 July 2003
What terrorism-related resolution did the UN Security Council adopt in 2005?
Resolution 1624
What phrase has been called a misnomer?
War on Terror
What flaw in the 'war on terror' name did Francis Fukuyama point out?
"terrorism" is not an enemy, but a tactic
Who runs the Welsh Assembly?
Carwyn Jones
About when did the Labour Parry start?
late 19th century
What year did Thomas R. Steels propose the single body union branch?
1899
How many delegates passed the motion?
129
What boosted support in 1901?
Taff Vale Case
Who overturned the Taft Vale judgement?
Liberal Government
How many MP were elected in the 1910 election?
42
WHen was the COmmunist party refused affiliation?
between 1921 and 1923
In what year did Ramsay MacDonald become the Labour PM?
1924
When was the Zinoviev letter published?
1924
When did MacDonald submit the resignation of his ministers?
1931
In what year was the Scottish and Welsh devolution rejected?
1979
In what year was Labour shown to have a slight lead?
1978
When was the Labout party defeated?
1979
Who was Foot replaced by?
Neil Kinnock
How many seats did Labour win in 2010?
258
How much in contributions did the Labour party get from January to Marrch 2008?
£3 million
How many more seats did LAbour get in 1987?
20
What year did Kinnock call for a general election?
1991
Who replaced Kinnock?
John Smith
WHen was Black Wednesday?
September 1992
What was the other name for the Labout Party?
"New Labour"
Who did Tony Blair side with?
President George W. Bush
When did Blair announce he was quitting?
September 2006
What is the official name for Estonia?
the Republic of Estonia
When did Estonia start hoping for freedom?
the period of national awakening
What features describe Estonia as a developed nation?
high-income economy and high living standards
When did political subgroups begin to appear in Estonia?
first centuries AD
Which subdivision of Estonians lived in Saaremaa?
The Oeselians
What year did the Oeselian pirates carry out a famous raid?
1187
What god did the Oeselians worship?
Tharapita
What was the capital of Danish Estonia?
Reval
What is the date of St. George's Night?
23 April 1343
When was Terra Mariana established?
2 February 1207
When did the Battle of Grunwald take place?
1410
When did the The Reformation in Europe start?
1517
What form of servitude was eliminated?
serfdom
What capital of France was lost to the Nazi Germans?
Paris
Who commanded the defense of the Estonia to surrender?
the Estonian government
What date was Estonia annexed by the Soviets?
6 August 1940
What date did the Germans invade the Soviets?
22 June 1941
What did the majority of Estonians view the Germans as?
liberators
Who did some Estonians join as an alternative to the Germans?
the Finnish Army
How many Estonians chose to retreat or flee when in anticipation of another Soviet invasion?
tens of thousands
What percentage of Estonians died after deporation?
Half the deported perished
What political strategy only allowed major parts of of Estonia to be accessed by the Soviets?
Militarization
What did most Western countries view as an illegal claim by the USSR?
the annexation of Estonia
What year did the Singing Revolution occur?
1989
What is the length of the border that Estonia shares with Lativa?
267 kilometers
What body of water borders Estonia?
the Baltic Sea
What section of the temperate climate zone does Estonia reside?
northern part
What is the largest administrative subdivision in Estonia?
A maakond
Who is the leader of Estonia's government?
the Prime Minister of Estonia
What position do the citizens of Estonia elect for a four year term?
The Parliament of Estonia
Who chooses high state officials of Estonia?
The Riigikogu
Who establishes the executive branch of Estonia?
the Prime Minister of Estonia
What is the most amount of ministers that a Prime Minister can assign?
three
What digital technology as Estonia been advacning?
Internet voting
What document declares supreme power for the people?
the Constitution of Estonia
What date did Estonia join the League of Nations?
22 September 1921
What type of foreign policy has Estonia sought after getting their independence?
close co-operation
Which Baltic countries have cooperated with Estonia since the early 1990s?
Latvia and Lithuania
What has been a major factor in the restoration of Estonia after winning their independence?
closer ties with the Nordic countries
When did Estonia join the European Union's Nordic Battle Group?
2005
What is the name of Estonia's Army?
Maavägi
Which countries aid Estonia in trilateral defense strategies?
Latvia and Lithuania
Who have been jointly working on protection against cyberwarfare?
The Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces
What institution views the economy of Estonia as high income?
the World Bank
How much of consumed electricity does Estonia produce by itself?
75%
When did the global economic recession start?
2007
What Estonia view itself as after winning independence?
the gateway between East and West
What was the worst economic year for Estonia after winning independence?
1999
What lacking resource does Estonia depend on other countries for?
energy
In what region does Estonia hold one of the highest per capita income levels?
Eastern
When did a huge deficit and rising inflation place pressure on Estonia's currency?
2007
How much money did Estonia receive from European Union Structural Funds between 2007 and 2013?
53.3 billion kroons (3.4 billion euros)
What period did the amount of ethnic Estonians drop by 61%?
Between 1945 and 1989
How did Estonians view the demographic change of less ethnic Estonians?
a national catastrophe
What number of Estonia's counties are over 80% ethnic Estonian?
Thirteen
What year was the Estonian Cultural Autonomy law established?
1925
What document labeled the the description of the citizenship policy of Estonia as "discriminatory"? 
The 2008 United Nations Human Rights Council report
What guarantees freedom of religion for Estonian citizens?
Estonia's constitution
What is the major group that believes in Eastern Orthodox Christianity?
Russian minority
What language does Estonian share similar words with?
Germanic
What are the three levels of higher learning in Estonia?
bachelor's, master's, and doctoral studies
What is the main science institution in Estonia?
The Estonian Academy of Sciences
What virtues does modern Estonian society promote?
liberty and liberalism
What institute provides education in art, design, and media?
The Estonian Academy of Arts
What name describes the Estonian Song Festivals?
Laulupidu
What year did Estonia win the Eurovision Song Contest?
2001
What event preceded the domination of Estonia by different European powers?
the Northern Crusades
Who was the most famous prose writer in early Estonian history?
Oskar Luts
Which medieval town is on the UNESCO World Heritage List?
Tallinn
What factors have influenced Estonian food for most of their history?
seasons and simple peasant food
What physical activity plays a major part in Estonian society?
Sport
What year did Estonia's basketball team first compete in the Summer Olympics
1936
What is one of the main causes of the turbulent history?
expansion of the Ottoman Empire
In which time period was Serbo-Croatian standardized?
mid-19th-century
What kind of phonology do South Slavic languages have?
simple
When was the term Serbo-Croatian first used?
1824
Which dialect did writers and linguists of both Serbian and Croatian backgrounds wish to use as their common standard language?
Shtokavian
What is the term used for books that lay out spelling rules?
pravopis
What three noun genders does Serbo-Croatian have?
masculine, feminine, and neuter
What is the term used when shifing the acent to the next preceding syllable?
"Neoshtokavian retraction"
Serbo-Croatian is the only Slavic language to use what two scripts together?
Latin and Cyrillic
What is a dialect continuum?
each dialect has some similarities with the neighboring one, and differences grow with distance.
Which dialect covers more area than all other dialects combined?
Štokavian
How many standard variants of the Serbo-Croatian are spoken?
four
Is it the majority or minority opinion that two different standard languages existed and overlapped at some historical point?
majority
Which language groups lived in Dalmation city-states prior to the 19th century?
Italian or Slavic
To which group did the people of the Catholic faith refer to themselves primarily?
Catholic Christendom
What was the first book published in Serbo-Croatian?
Glagolitic Missale Romanum Glagolitice (1483)
Which agreement was signed in 1954 by writers, linguists, and literary critics?
Novi Sad Agreement
Which tense indicates that an action hasn't finished?
imperfective
To what did the ending -ei evolve into in Ijekavian Neostokavian?
-io
All Slavic vernaculars were called what among Romans?
(Illyrian)
What opinions do Croatian Nationalists have on the language issue?
they speak an entirely separate language from Serbs and Bosnians
In which province are Serbian and Croatian both languages offial?
Vojvodina
What is Alaska's total population according to the 2015 Census?
738,432
What are the contiguous states sometimes called?
"the Lower 48"
Which forest is the largest national forest in the US?
Tongass National Forest
Which area contains the Prudhoe Bay Oil Field?
The North Slope
How much tidal shoreline does Alaska have in miles?
nearly 34,000 miles
What percentage of Alaska is maintained by the US federal government?
65%
How many acres of its land does the state of Alaska own?
101 million acres
Which group claims it is Alaska's largest private land owner?
Doyon, Limited
How much precipitation does Juno receive each year?
over 50 in
What two bodies of water influene the climate in Western Alaska?
Bering Sea and the Gulf of Alaska
Which President allowed Tsimshian settlers to inhabit Annette Island?
Grover Cleveland
Which indigenous group is controversially known for hunting caribou on protected land?
The Gwich'in people of the northern Interior region
During what time period do some researchers believe Russians settled in Alaska?
17th century
What event brought thousands of people to Alaska in the 1890s to early 1910s?
gold rushes
On what day was Alaska officially named a state?
January 3, 1959
What major event happened in Alaska on March 27, 1964 killing 133 people?
Good Friday earthquake
At least how many native Alaskan languages exist, according to the Alaska Native Language Center?
at least 20
According to the Association of Religion Data in 2010, what percentage of Alaskans are members of a relgious congregation?
34%
Which church was established in Kodiak in 1795?
First Russian Orthodox Church
What was the per capita personal income in Alaska in 2007?
$40,042
In which Alaskan areas are military bases prevalent as an important part of the local economy?
Fairbanks North Star, Anchorage and Kodiak Island boroughs, as well as Kodiak
What other states rank higher than Alaska in crude oil production?
Texas, North Dakota, and California
How much oil can the Trans-Alaska Pipeline transport per day?
up to 2.1 million barrels
Why were alternative energy sources judged uneconomical in 2001?
low (less than 50¢/gal) fuel prices, long distances and low population
What is the Alaska Permanent Fund?
constitutionally authorized appropriation of oil revenues
Was Alaska's Constitution written to encourage or discourage state funds being used for a particular purpose?
discourage
How long must an Alaskan have lived in the state in order to receive a Permanent Fund Dividend?
minimum of 12 months
Which crops are produced in the Delta-area?
barley and hay
What causes food in Alaskan cities to be relatively expensive?
shipping costs
Why is there a debate about moving the capital of Alaska to another town?
Juneau, is not accessible by road
What year was the Alaska Railroad built?
around 1915
The ARR was one of the last railroads in the US to use what?
cabooses
What is the name of Alaska's ferry system?
the Alaska Marine Highway
Which two cities are served by major airlines?
Anchorage and, to a lesser extent Fairbanks
Which service allows government to subsidise regular air travel in Alaska?
Essential Air Service program
What are the names of a few regional Alaskan airlines?
Ravn Alaska, PenAir, and Frontier Flying Service
Which plane is considered quintessentially Alaskan?
bush seaplane
Which Alaskan way of transport is more for sport than for transportation?
dogsled
Which two companies provide internet and data transport to Alaska?
GCI and Alaska Communications
How does Alaska finance its state government operations?
petroleum revenues and federal subsidies
Which political party does Alaska generally support?
Republicans
The areas surrounding which university has been historically a Democratic stronghold?
University of Alaska Fairbanks
Into how many recording districts is Alaska divided?
34
What are CDPs?
census-designated places
In 2010, what percent of Alaska's population did not live in a city or CDP?
2.88%
In what year did Alaskan State Troopers become an official organization?
1941
What is Alaska's most prominent orchestra?
Anchorage Symphony Orchestra
Which Alaskan native starred in a film also set in Alaska?
Ray Mala
Which classical views about the method of science did Popper reject?
inductivist
In which city was Karl Popper born?
Vienna
At which age did Popper first attend university?
16
What trade did Popper enter as an apprentice?
cabinetmaker
Who supervised Popper's doctorate?
Karl Bühler
Where did Popper move in 1937?
New Zealand
How old was Popper when he died?
92
Which award did Popper receive from the American Political Science Association?
Lippincott Award
In which year did Popper win the Karl Renner Prize?
1978
What political philosophy that attracted Popper as a teenager had a profound influence on his thinking going forward?
Marxism
What political ideology dominated Austrian politics in the decades before the second world war?
fascism
Which two important psychologists did Popper view as advancing non-scientific theories?
Freud and Adler
According to Popper, a theory is scientific only is it is susceptible to what?
falsification
What term did Popper use for his philosophy?
critical rationalism
Popper pointed out an important logical asymmetry between what two concepts?
verification and falsifiability
Which of Popper's works addresses the improvement of scientific understanding of the world over time?
All Life is Problem Solving
What process in science is like the process of natural selection in nature?
error elimination
Popper's thoughts on falsification present a solution to the philosophical problem concerning what type of scientific reasoning?
induction
Popper's rational approach opposes what technique sometimes used to remove contradictions in knowledge?
ad-hoc-measures
According to Popper, what is not grounds for doubt?
lack of justification
What is the term for the view that there are discoverable general laws constraining history's development?
historicism
Whose theory of truth did Popper read with intense interest in 1935?
Alfred Tarski
What term do philosophers give to the kind of theory Tarski proposed about truth?
deflationary
What term does Popper use that roughly means verisimilitude?
truthlikeness
What did Popper argue was objective and independent of its subject?
knowledge
Which of Popper's notions is often invoked in creation-evolution debates?
criterion of falsifiability
Along with some creationists, Popper believed that evolution must have what quality to its progress?
goal-directed
What is the name of Popper's model of evolution?
spearhead
Which view of evolution emphasizing large changes in organisms' phenotypes does Popper oppose to his own?
hopeful monster
Which professor cited by Popper described the creation-evolution debate as "a storm in a Victorian tea-cup?"
C.E. Raven
In which year did Popper give a secret interview concerning his views about God?
1969
What branch of philosophy did Popper advance the most?
philosophy of science
Which other Austrian scholar and friend of Popper also worked near him at the London School of Economics?
Friedrich Hayek
What other contemporaneous school of thought is often confused with Popper's own contributions?
logical positivism
What thesis says a scientific hypothesis is not testable in isolation from its system of theories?
Quine-Duhem
Popper believed he had already discussed similar ideas to Kuhn's about scientific communities in what work?
Logic of Discovery
What kind of criteria frequently used in science complicates the definitiveness of some hypotheses' falsification?
statistical
Which book by Houck points out logical flaws in Popper's falsificationism?
Science Versus Crime
Which German psychologist and tutor of Popper may have originated some of Popper's ideas?
Otto Selz
Which two prominent scientists advanced theories that John N. Gray claims would never have survived the scientific method Popper describes?
Darwin and Einstein
Gray's approach aligns with which approach that Popper himself considered untenable?
inductivist
Which type of theory is most falsifiable?
simplest
Who instigated the 1919 riot that reshaped Popper's political views?
Communists
What country did the mandolin originate from?
Italian
What are the four common styles of mandolins?
the Neapolitan or round-backed mandolin, the carved-top mandolin and the flat-backed mandolin.
What did most of the development of the mandolin revolve around?
soundboard (the top)
Who introduced the lute to Spain?
the Moors
What is there currently confusion over? 
eldest Vinaccia luthier who first ran the shop
What year was the beginning of the transition from mandolino to mandolin?
1744
When did the mandolin's poplarity rebound?
Beginning with the Paris Exposition of 1878
When was the second decline of mandolin popularity?
early 20th century,
What happens to mandolin notes when plucked? 
decay to silence
What kind of style does the Neapolitan mandolin have?
almond-shaped body resembling a bowl, constructed from curved strips of wood
Where did the Lombardic family of bowlback mandolins come from?
Milan and Lombardy
Who described the Lombardi mandolin as wider and shorter than the Neoapolitan mandolin?
Samuel Adelstein
Who popularised the Cremonese Mandolin?
Bartolomeo Bortolazzi
When was a new sytle of carved top and back construction mandolins created?
end of the 19th century
What shape sounds holes do these styles of mandolins have? 
two f-shaped soundholes like a violin (F-5 and A-5), or an oval sound hole (F-4 and A-4 and lower models)
What style of Gisbon Mandolin was largely replicated?
Gibson F-5
What instrument does the mandolin share the same tuning of?  
violin
Who played a key role Australian mandolin movement? 
Phil Skinner
Who is the director of the Sydney Mandolins?
Adrian Hooper
What is an Etsudiantinas? 
mandolin orchestras
Prior to what age did France have a history with the mandolin?
Golden Age of Mandolins
What Island is the mandolin a main instrument in Cretan Music? 
island of Crete
Many adaptations of the instruments were done to cater to what type of music? 
Indian Carnatic
What types of instruments do irish player prefer?
might be adequate for Irish traditional music, virtually all Irish players prefer flat-backed instruments with oval sound holes
Who are some of the famous Irish Mandolinists?
Andy Irvine
Who composed the Concerto in C Major Op 3 6?
Antonio Vivaldi
What country still maintains strong classic music tradition with mandolin?
Japan
What does bandolim mean?
Portuguese for "mandolin"
Who is a famous British player?
Simon Mayor
What group in the US was popular?
Estudiantina Figaro
When did madolin awareness in the US become fluent?
1880s
What popular musical casted a teacher-dealer? 
The Music Man
The setting the mandolin was used in until the 1930's was? 
ensemble setting
What groups have become popular amonbgpublic schools?
mandolin-based guitar programs
What family recorded an old-time music in 1924-1926?
Cowan Powers and his family
What chording sound was Monroe popular for?
the chop
Who was the major bluegrass mandolinist that became popular in 1950's?
Jesse McReynolds
What is Jethro Burns commonly known for?
half of the comedy duo Homer and Jethro
Who got his start with his father's mandolin? 
Howard Armstrong,
When did the mandolin first appear in rock music?
psychedelic era of the late 1960s
What type of mandolin do rock musicians today use? 
single-stringed electric
What place in Brazil do mandolins play an important role?  
Venezuela
What type of music has mandolins played? 
mandolin orchestras have traditionally played many arrangements of music written for regular orchestras or other ensembles
In what phylum are insects classified? 
arthropod
How does the lifecycle of most insects typically begin?
hatch from eggs
What is the term for the gait of an insect characterized by walking in alternating triangles?
tripedal
By what method do humans often try to control the spread of insects?
insecticides
What is the Latin term for insect?
insectum
From what period do researchers believe that the oldest known full-body impression of a flying insect originates?
Carboniferous
In addition to Carboniferous, what other insect order is inclusive of extant groups, stem groups and Paleozoic groups?
Early Permian
What type of defense did plants adaptively evolve in response to insects?
chemical
What is the term for the class of insects with wings?
Pterygota
Morphology-based and appearance-based are known as what?
systematics
Paleoptera and Neoptera are what kind of insect orders? 
winged
What are likely to be paraphyletic?
The Exopterygota
The true diversity within the insect species remains what?
uncertain
What kind of bodies to insects have?
segmented bodies
What part of the insect contains most of the sensing organs?
head
The throax has how many sections?
three sections
What is the largest tagma of an insect?
abdomen
Insect's outer skeleton is known as what?
the cuticle
Insects are also known as what kind of vertebra?
invertebrates
What is on each side of a thoracic segment?
ganglion
How many insects have nociceptors?
a few
What produces saliva in an insects mouth?
salivary glands
What is another name for mesenteron?
midgut
What is a proctodaeum?
the hindgut
Female insects reproductive system contain a pair of what?
ovaries
What is the male reproductive system called? 
testis
Respiration for insects happens without what?
lungs
What kind of exchange is demonstrated by different insects?
gas exchange
Where are insects hatched from?
eggs.
Polymophism is a developmental and reproductive what?
variations
How many insects use parthenogenesis?
Some
Incomplete metamorphosis insects are called?
Hemimetabolous
What is a complete metamorphosis called?
Holometabolism
Insects have specialized organs of what kind?
perception
Insects have what kind of sense of numbers?
rudimentary
What is another name for Colleobola?
Onychiuridae
Most insects are able to perceive darkness and what else?
light
What were the earliest organisms to produce sound?
Insects
What sound volume is produced by Coleoptera?
low
What are used by insects to communicate with members of the same species?
vibrations
Animal taste and smell rely on what kind of communication?
Chemical
Insects use sound and what other means for communication?
chemical means
Termites are considered what type of insect?
Social
Insects with fine scale spatial orientation live in colonies and where else?
nests
Eusocial insects provide food for their offspring full-time or part-time?
full-time
Insects are the only invertebrates that have evolved into what?
flight
How many legs do adult insects contain?
six
What kind of locomotion is seen in stick insects?
sedate
Water beetles have legs of what type of structure?
paddle-like
Learning how insects interact with the surrounding environment is called what?
Insect ecology
What is an important defense strategy for insects to survive?
Camouflage
Mimicry is another type of what kid of strategy?
defense
What kind of defense is found in the Coleoptera species?
Chemical
Pollen transferred in the reproduction of plants is called?
Pollination
Humans consider insects as what?
pests
What kind of insects attract the most attention from humans?
pest insects
What insects feed on other insects?
Insectivorous
Insects play prominent roles in what?
biological research
Insects are considered as what in some cultures?
delicacies
What ancient world insect is considered symbolic?
Scarab beetles
What do all living humans belong to?
the same species
What type of group can't be biologically defined?
racial
How do people create a social reality in which social categorization is achieved?
define and talk about a particular conception of race
Socioeconomic factors and enduring views on race has led to what for certain racial groups?
considerable suffering
What does law enforcement in some countries use to profile suspects?
race
What have human groups always considered themselves as compared to other nearby groups?
distinct
When did many of the ideas associated with the term "race" arise?
time of the scientific revolution
Who was the author of the first published book classifying humans into distinct races?
François Bernier
What year was Blumenbach's treatise published?
1775
What did the merging of superstitious beliefs and scientific ones regarding group differences produce?
an "ideology of race"
What theory is the belief that differences races had evolved independently on each continent?
polygenism
What species do all living humans today belong to?
Homo sapiens
Who taught and accepted the belief that biologically distinct races were isomorphic?
many anthropologists
What type of geneticists have debates about what can provide a basis for a new conception of race?
Population
What are traditionally geographically isolated?
subspecies
What must organisms have a measurable level of to be seen as a subspecies?
difference
When did Sewall Wright make his suggestion about human populations?
1978
What is cladistics a method of?
classification
What analysis method are taxonomists fond of using in considering a population?
phylogenetic
What did Lieberman and Jackon find profound problems using cladistics to support concepts of?
race
What did C. Loring Brace observe about about variations?
distributed along geographic gradations or clines
What must one be attentive to when talking about race?
how the term is being used
What did two biologists point out in 1964?
cases where two or more clines are distributed discordantly
What is the consequence of the number and geographic location ascribed to a race highly dependent on?
the importance attributed to, and quantity of, the traits considered.
What thing that strongly differentiates the French from some other populations be clinal across Europe?
a selected allele
What can one use to look at differences between groups instead of physical differences?
genetic differences
What did Sewall Wright develop one way of measuring?
genetic differences between populations
FST values greater than .25 represent very great what?
genetic variation
What two researchers gave a long critique regarding the application of FST to human populations in 2003?
Jeffrey Long and Rick Kittles
What type of classification system for humans did A.W.F. Edwards argue for?
characteristic genetic patterns
What groups were early samples from for genetic cluster analysis?
ancestral population
Randomly chosen people from different groups may be more similar to each other than with members of their own what?
cluster
Cluster structure of genetic data is dependent on what initial thing?
hypotheses
What word do many social scientists instead of race?
ethnicity
What organization is Craig Venter and Francis Collins associated with?
the National Institute of Health
Researchers from which university challenged the theory of race being only a social construct?
Stanford
What country was race "Biologized" in?
Brazil
How many racial categories would be needed with all the possible combinations of outward features?
Over a dozen
What categories have an aspect of fluidity?
racial
What would more people report themselves as if a more consistent report were considered?
white
What is roughly the amount of African slaves imported to Brazil?
3.5 million
Who uses the terms racial origin and ethnic origin interchangeably? 
The European Union
What relies on the idea humans can be divided into biologically distinct races?
The concept of racial origin
France has become a more ethnically diverse country since the end of which war?
Second World War
Groups of people have been classified as belonging to difference races since what part of the U.S.'s history?
early
When did the term "Hispanic" begin being used?
the 20th century
What is the name of China's only anthropology journal?
Acta Anthropologica Sinica
What years did Kaszycka survey Eureopean anthropolgists' opinions toward the biological race concept?
2002–2003
What does the current literature regarding human variation lack?
consensus
Where is Eduardo Bonilla-Silver a Sociology professor?
Duke University
What concept's use has declined significantly in the U.S. during the 20th century?
biological race
What group of anthropologists overwhelmingly support the idea of human races?
forensic
What type of anthropology is "race" sometimes still used within?
forensic
How many college textbooks in biology did the authors of the study examine?
77
What did Morning find when he looked at biology textbooks during the 1952-2002 period?
similar pattern
Who promotes the use of racially categorized data in the United States?
federal government
What does finding a difference in disease prevalence between two socially defined groups not necessarily imply?
genetic causation of the difference
What does the FBI feel providing general descriptions helps to facilitate?
job of law enforcement officers
How many separate classification systems do agencies in England and Wales use?
at least two
Where has the practice of racial profiling been ruled to be unconstitutional?
United States
What impacts African American and Latino communities in disproportionate numbers?
Mass incarceration
What morphological features do forensic anthropologists draw on?
highly heritable
What does mapping clusters disentangle ancestry from?
culture
Thomas and others sought to distinguish between what chromosome of Jewish priests and that of non-Jews?
Y
What is a problem with racial assignments? 
admixture
What is the aggregate population of Paris?
10,550,350
What is the most visited art museum in the world?
Louvre
What is the name of the football club in Paris?
Paris Saint-Germain
What was Paris known as in Latin?
Parisius
who was the first king of the Merovingian dynasty?
Clovis the Frank
What was the site of the royal palace in the 12th century?
Île de la Cité
In what years did the English soldiers occupy Paris during the Hundred Years War?
1420 until 1436
In what year did Louis XIV move his court to Versailles?
1682
Where did Louis XVI and his family live?
Tuileries Palace
In what year was Louis-Phillipe over thrown?
1848
What type of art did Courbet, Manet, Monet and Renoir create?
Impressionism
How many soldiers did Parisian Taxis transport to the front line at the First Battle of the Marne?
6,000
On what date did the German army declare Paris as an open city?
14 June 1940
How many police officers did the pro-independence FLN kill in August of 1961?
11
In what year was the Centre Georges Pompidou erected?
1977
What was the population of Paris in 2011?
2.25 million
On what date did two Muslim extremists attack Charlie Hebdo?
7 January 2015
Where in France is Paris located?
northern central
What road encircles Paris?
Boulevard Périphérique
Which current affects Paris' weather?
North Atlantic Current
What is the average temperature during winter?
7 °C
How many members are there in the Conseil de Paris?
163
What was the budget of the city in 2013
€7.6 billion
When did the Metropole du Grand Paris come into existence?
January 1, 2016
How many members are in the Metropolitan Council?
210
In which district is the Regional Coucil housed?
7th
Where are France's highest courts located?
Paris
Where is the headquarters for UNESCO?
Paris
Who is responsible for the security of Paris?
Prefecture of Police of Paris
Who remodeled Paris in the 19th century?
Baron Haussmann
What is the current height limitation in Paris in central areas?
50 m
When was La Madeleine built?
1808-1842
What was the population of the urban area of Paris in 2012 without a fixed residence?
28,800
What are they only two additions to Paris' administrative limits since 1860?
Bois de Boulogne, Bois de Vincennes
When did Paul Delouvrier become the head of the Paris region?
1961
Where are the quartiers sensibles located?
northern and eastern Paris
In Janurary of 2014, what was the population of Paris' city limits?
2,241,346
What is Paris' peak population?
2.9 million
What was the most populated city in the EU in 2012?
Commune of Paris
How many immigrants were in Paris in 2012 from Europe?
135,853
What percentage of jobs were market services in 2012?
59.5
How many salaried employees lived in the Paris Region in 2010?
5.4 million
Who is the second largest business district employer?
La Défense
What was Paris Region's GDP in 2012?
€624 billion
What as the Paris Region's economy shifted towards?
high-value-added service industries
In what districts are the majority of businesses service jobs located?
8th, 16th and 17th
What does Paris region manufacturing specialize in?
transportation
What does the southern Essonne department specialize in?
science and technology
What was the average net household income in Paris in 2011?
€36,085
What percentage of households earned less than 977 per month?
14
How many people visited Paris' museums and monuments in 2013?
72.1 million
Where are the most visited monuments located in Paris?
centre of Paris
How many hotels are in the City of Paris?
1,570
What art was Paris famous for in the 16th and 17th centuries?
sculpture and reliefs
What type of art did Paris help develop with painters like Gericault?
Romanticism
In what year was the first permanent photograph produced?
1825
What was the most visited art museum in Paris in 2014?
The Louvre
What museum is famous for its dinosaur artifacts?
The National Museum of Natural History
When did Philharmonie de Paris open?
January 2015
When was the oldest Paris theater founded?
1680
In what year was The Moulin Rouge opened?
1889
What was the title of the first book printed in France?
Epistolae
What book inspired the renovation of Notre Dame?
The Hunchback of Notre Dame
Who was the winner of the 2014 Nobel prize in literature?
Patrick Modiano
What percentage of french publishing houses were in Paris in the 1970s?
80
in what century was a school of polyphony established at Notre Dame?
12th
What style of french music became populars in the 1870sto 1880s?
Bal-musette
When did most of the jazz clubs close down?
1960s
Where was the first movie projected for a paying audience in Paris?
Grand Café
Who realied the first digital cinema projection in Europe?
Philippe Binant
What is the model for luxury Parisian restaurants?
La Taverne Anglaise
How many restaurants are there today in Paris?
9,000
When was the first cafe opened in Paris?
17th century
What is clothing made to order for private clients called?
haute couture
How many centres of higher education are in Paris?
55
Who operates the public libraries in Paris?
Bibliothèque nationale de France
What is the largest university library?
Sorbonne Library
What is the most predominant religion in France?
Roman Catholic
How many evangelical churches are there in Paris?
74
Who built the Marais-quarter Agodudas Hakehilos Synagogue?
Hector Guimard
What is the former Cameroon pavilion?
The Pagode de Vincennes Buddhist temple
How many seats are in the State de France?
80,000
Who oversees the transit network in Paris?
The Syndicat des transports d'Île-de-France
Where does line T1 run from?
Asnières-Gennevilliers to Noisy-le-Sec
Where is the 4th busiest international air transport hub in the world?
Paris
What airport does Ryanair use?
Beauvais-Tillé Airport
WHen did the Canal de l'Ourcq start providing Paris with water?
1809
How many municipal parks and gardens does Paris have?
421
Who was Paris' first director of parks and gardens?
Jean-Charles Alphand
What is Paris' largest cemetary?
les Innocents
Who was Prefect Nicholas Frochot under?
Napoleon Bonaparte
How many people are employed at AP-HP?
90,000
What are France's two most prestigious newspapers?
Le Monde and Le Figaro
What is the most viewed television network in France?
TF1
What is the word for a beardless, athletic youth?
kouros
Who was described at the prophetic deity of the Delphic Oracle?
Apollo
Who was the Titan goddess of the moon?
Selene
What is the name of the popular assembly in Sparta?
Apella
What Doric word means assembly?
apella
Who is a god of plague?
Aplu
Who was the god of light?
Apollo
The epithet Delphinius is associated with what animal?
dolphins
What is the literal word for latrus?
physician
What word literally means "warding off evil?"
Alexicacus
Which epithet has historically been associated with ambiguous?
Loxias
As god of archery, Apollo was known by what name?
Aphetor
Who was Apollo's twin sister?
Artemis
Who brought the art of inspection of "symbols and omina?"
Apollo
What were magicians also called?
seer-doctors
What is a comon epithet of Apollo as a healer?
paion
Who was Apollo's son?
Asclepius
What does the word Pella mean?
stone
Who was the adversary of Zeus in the titanomachy?
Typhon
Who is Apollo's sister?
Artemis
What was the name for "the double-axe men?"
Labryaden
Who did scholars beieve carried on the rituals in a consistent procedure?
Pythia
Who describes Delphi and Dodona as frenzied women?
Plato
Who was Apollo's mother?
Leto
Who is the Cretan seer that purified Athen after the pollution brought by the Alcmeonidae?
Epimenides
Who was a tutelary god of Wilusa?
Appaliunas
What age ran from 1700 to 1200 BCE?
The Late Bronze Age
which two cult sites had widespread infuence?
Delos and Delphi
What buildings were originally rectangle wood structures?
peripteral temples
Who kidnapped Eileithyia?
Hera
What was the name of the chthonic dragon?
Python
Who is Apollo's son?
Asclepius
Who was the daughter of Peneus?
Daphne
Who was Leucothea's mother?
Orchamus
Who was the daughter of Phlegyas?
Coronis
Who was one of Apollo's male lovers?
Hyacinthus
Who argued about whether the matricide was justified?
Apollo and the Furies
Who challenged Apollo to a trial of skill?
Pan
What instrument did Apolo play?
lyre
Where was Apollo's first temple at Rome established?
Flaminian fields
Who was god of colonization?
Apollo
Who was the god of wine?
Dionysus
Whose masterpieces are a mixture of naturallism with stylization?
Praxiteles
Who asserted that a divine reason gave order to the seeds of the universe?
Anaxagoras
What is the modern term given to those representations of stnding male youths that first appear in the archaic period in Greece?
Kouros
The period between 640-580 BC was known as what?
early archaic period
Who is said to be the builder of the labyrinth?
Daedalus
What period ran from 520-485 BC?
late archaic period
Who wrote that beauty consists in the proportion not of the elements?
Polykleitos
The statues of who were thought to incarnate his living presence?
Apollo
Who seemed to have been dominated by geometrical pattern and order?
The artists
Who is often depicted with a kithara or bow in his hand?
Apollo
How many States renounced their preferred political party?
three
What even occured during Bush's presidency that made him become a wartime president?
terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001
Who did Bush feel was important to remove from power, after removing the Taliban from Kabul?
Saddam Hussein
By what date did Bush obtain the number of votes required to become the 2004 Republican nominee?
March 10, 2004
Who became the Democratic nominee, half way through 2003?
Howard Dean
Which Democratic nominee declared his intention to enter into the presidential race, in the fall of 2003?
Wesley Clark
Who had the least amount of backers, between Kerry and Dean?
Kerry
Who, at the start of the primaries, had the most single campaign contributors?
Lyndon LaRouche
How many candidates remained by the end of the Iowa caucuses, in January 2004?
nine
Which candidate, after dropping out, went on to endorse Kerry?
Gephardt
Which candidate went on to win the South Carolina primary?
John Edwards
Which candidate was the fore-runner after definitively winning in the primaries and Minnesota caucuses?
Kerry
Who did John Kerry choose to be by his side as the potential Vice President?
John Edwards
What was the primary focus of Bush's campaign?
national security
Who was accused on not fulfilling their military service, during the fall of 2004?
Bush
Where did the first debate, between Kerry and Bush take place?
University of Miami
Where was the second debate for presidency held?
Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri
How many debates were there in total, between Kerry and Bush?
third
Who received a certified ballot from the Electoral College, despite his name being spelled incorrectly on the ballot?
John Edwards
Why was there tension the day after the election?
It was clear that the result in Ohio, along with two other states who had still not declared (New Mexico and Iowa), would decide the winner
Was there any debate about the voting process in Ohio?
a motion was made contesting Ohio's electoral votes
What did Kerry say affected the ability to know if the results of the Ohio vote was unbiased?
"the widespread irregularities make it impossible to know for certain that the [Ohio] outcome reflected the will of the voters."
Who was called in to watch over the presidential election in 2004?
the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) sent a team of observers to monitor the presidential elections in 2004
What finance act affected the 2004 election?
the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002
How were viewers able to determine who endorsed political campaign ads, they saw in advertisements??
required to include a verbal disclaimer identifying the organization responsible for the advertisement
What action suggested by a state, would have affecting the outcome of the electoral votes?
ballot initiative in Colorado, known as Amendment 36
What was the original name of IBM?
Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company
How many employees did IBM have in 2012?
435,000 worldwide
Under what name do research laboratories operated by IBM work under?
IBM Research
What was IBM's operating margin in 2004?
16.8%
In what year did IBM acquire Kenexa?
2012
On what date did the companies that became the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company get consolidated?
June 16, 1911
In what year did Thomas J. Watson, Sr. join CTR?
1914
What what was the name of the subsidiary working in Germany during World War 2?
Dehomag
Thomas Watson Sr. stepped down in what year?
1952
One company that IBM acquired in 2002 is?
PwC consulting
IBM sold its personal computer business to what company?
Lenovo
IBM acquired digital assets of this company on October 28, 2015.
The Weather Company
IBM has how many members on its Board of Directors?
14
How large of a drop in sales did IBM report for fiscal year 2013?
5% drop
What building did Van der Rohe create for IBM?
330 North Wabash building in Chicago
Who was the CEO in 1914?
Thomas J. Watson
In what year did IBM begin to provide group life insurance?
1934
Who published IBM's first equal opportunity policy letter?
Thomas J. Watson, Jr
What date did Thomas Watson, Jr. send out a letter about IBM hiring the best people regardless of race, gender, or origin?
September 21, 1953
IBM began supporting this in 1998.
Linux
IBM runs what website for software developers?
DeveloperWorks
What kind of processor was in the Xbox 360?
PowerPC tri-core processor
What will Open Client Offering run on?
Linux, Microsoft Windows and Apple's Mac OS X
What is the name of the IBM project that redirected $1 billion each year to increase energy efficiency?
Project Big Green
What is the name of the program that IBM uses to search for new start-up companies to solve world problems?
SmartCamp
What location is the birthplace of IBM?
Endicott
What is economic liberalism sometimes also referred to?
New Right
Whom are referred to as "The forgoten people?"
the middle class
Did Mezies and Malcom Fraser raise, mainain, or lower tariff levels?
generally maintain
Which group was predecessor to the Liberals?
United Australia Party (UAP)
What economic event influenced the 1931 Election?
the Great Depression
To what are Menzies' "Forgotten People" radio talks compared to?
Franklin D. Roosevelt's "fireside chats"
Where was the formation of the Liberal party officially announced?
Sydney Town Hall
How many years did the Liberals stay in office after the 1949 election?
a record 23 years
What was a key political topic in the 1950s and 1960s?
Anti-communism
Which treaty was Australia's first military alliance outside of the British Commonwealth?
ANZUS Treaty
What did the Immigration Act's entry permit system include?
economic and skills criteria
Government under whom experienced the conversion to decimal currency?
Holt
Which government put an emphasis in supporting the arts?
The Gorton Government
Which continent did Gorton wish to pursue closer ties with?
Asia
Who became the first indigenous Austrailian in Parliament?
Neville Bonner
On what day did the 1975 constitutional crisis deadlock end?
11 November 1975
Which document allowed Indigenous peoples the right to some traditional lands?
Aboriginal Land Rights Act 1976
How was Howard different from Paul Keating?
he supported traditional Australian institutions like the Monarchy in Australia, the commemoration of ANZAC Day and the design of the Australian flag
Which parties merged in Queensland in 2008 to form the new Liberal National Party of Queensland?
the Liberal and National parties
How close was the race betwen Turnbull and Abbott in 2009?
42 votes to 41
Who is the Australian Liberal Party's leader?
Malcolm Turnbull
Who was the first indigenous Australian elected to the House?
Ken Wyatt
How many state divisions exist in the Liberal Party's organisation?
six
Was Menzies for or against nationalizing the banking system in Australia?
strongly against
Which two title holders fought for political power in the early 1990s?
former Treasurer John Howard competing with former Foreign Minister Andrew Peacock
How long was Tom Playford in political power?
from the 1933 election to the 1965 election
What was William Scott Wilson's occupation?
translator
What did samurai mean nearly the same thing as?
bushi
When was the Battle of Hakusukinoe?
663 AD
In what period did Emperor Kammu rule?
early Heian period
When was the Genpei war?
late 12th century
What rebellion happened in 1160?
Heiji Rebellion
Who was the first warrior to become imperial advisor?
Taira no Kiyomori
When did the Gempei War begin?
1180
Which Chinese dynasty was founded by Mongols?
Yuan
What was built around Hakata Bay?
a great stone barrier
When did Toyotomi Hideyoshi first send an army to Korea?
1592
Which military leader avoided sending his soldiers to Korea?
Tokugawa Ieyasu
Who used arquebuses a lot?
Oda Nobunaga
When were samurai becoming less warrior-like?
During the Tokugawa shogunate
Who were most samurais' lords?
daimyo
Which force invaded Japan in 1853?
U.S. Navy
When was the samurai military modernized?
1854
Who established a western-style army in Japan?
Emperor Meiji
What group made up most of Japan's first exchange students?
Samurai
What philosophies were the samurai influenced by?
Buddhism and Zen, and to a lesser extent Confucianism and Shinto
When was Hojo Shigetoki born?
1198
What does a samurai has his heart in the wrong place dislike?
battle
When was Kato Kiyomasa in power?
the Sengoku Era
Who did Torii Mototada serve?
Tokugawa Ieyasu
Who was Takeda's rival?
Uesugi Kenshin
What religious order was St. Francis Xavier in?
Jesuit
Where was Malacca?
Malaysia
Who wrote 'Ideals of the Samurai'?
William Scott Wilson
Whose culture included tea ceremonies?
samurai
What did Nobunaga mean?
an adult name (nanori) given at genpuku, the coming of age ceremony
How did the samurai treat concubines?
akin to a marriage
How common was divorce for samurai?
rare
What did samurai wives spend most of their time on?
Maintaining the household
What characteristics did samurais want their wives to have?
humility, obedience, self-control, strength, and loyalty
Who was Ashikaga Yoshimasa?
8th shogun of the Muromachi shogunate
In what period did Japanese women begin being more educated?
Tokugawa
Who was the first Western samurai?
William Adams
What nationality was Jan Joosten van Lodensteijn?
Dutch
What nationality was Edward Schnell?
Prussian
What type of armor did Japanese wear in the 7th century?
a form of lamellar armor
Why were there armor changes in the 1500s?
the advent of firearms, new fighting tactics and the need for additional protection
What did 'samurai' mean at first?
those who serve in close attendance to nobility
Who were the bushi class?
ancient Japanese soldiers from traditional warrior families
What was a synonym for seppuku?
hara kiri
Who was an example of a disloyal samurai?
Akechi Mitsuhide
What is Jidaigeki?
historical drama
Who is Eiji Yoshikawa?
one of the most famous Japanese historical novelists
Who said America hyperbolizes the samurai?
Moscardi, N.D.
Who created Afro Samurai?
Takashi Okazaki
In what company's comics did Silver Samurai appear?
Marvel
What is the purpose of testing software?
finding software bugs
What can testing not completely find?
all the defects
What is the primamry reason for testing software?
to detect software failures
What is the first step that leads to a software failure?
programmer makes an error
What is the primary issue with running software testing?
testing under all combinations of inputs and preconditions (initial state) is not feasible
Although software developers are unable to test everything, what do they run to keep the testing to a minimum? 
use combinatorial test design
What determines the cost of fixing a bug?
the earlier a defect is found
Name three approaches software testers take when testing their software?
Reviews, walkthroughs, or inspections
What is another term used for White-box testing?
clear box testing
What is the main difference between black-box testing and white-box testing?
seeing the source code
What term is used to test functionality of the software accordingly with the application requirements?
Specification-based testing
What is one huge advantage to using the black-box method?
no programming knowledge is required
What does grey-box testing involve?
having knowledge of internal data structures and algorithms
What does a grey-box tester implement when they have limited information?
intelligent test scenarios
What are the four recognized levels of testing software?
unit testing, integration testing, component interface testing, and system testing
What is the main reasoning behind Unit testing that involves synchronization of the application on a broad spectrum? 
reduce software development risks, time, and costs
What is it called to check data passed between units?
component interface testing
What is the term used to test software during a pre-release?
Operational Acceptance
What is the most common reason for software failure?
compatibility with other application software
Finding defects once a change in code had already happened is called?
Regression testing
What typically comes after the Alpha stage in the development and testing of software?
Beta testing
What method is used to cause a system to fail?
Destructive testing
What method is used to test software under a specific load?
Load testing
What method is used that involves synchronization of a application?
Development Testing
Which two current movements adhere to the "test-driven software development"?
extreme programming and the agile software development
What three components make up Bottom Up Testing?
modules, procedures, and functions
If the number of states is unknown, what group does this fall into?
Class II
With several certifications out there that can be aquired, what is the one trait they all share?
requires the applicant to show their ability to test software
What makes up part of the SQA?
Software testing
What ingredient makes glass colorful?
metallic salts
What element is used in glass to keep it from becoming too hot?
Iron
What causes glass to dissolve in water?
soda
What happens during refining?
removal of bubbles
What can be used to make glass less refractive?
boron
Which kinds of glass existed the furthest in the past?
silicate glasses
What does glass lack, allowing it to be transparent?
internal subdivisions
What kind of glass exists in nature?
obsidian
What can give glass a faint green tinge?
iron(II) oxide
What word does "glass" come from?
glesum
When did stained glass make a big comeback?
19th-century
What type of glass is used in cars?
laminated
What famous lampmaker used glass?
Louis Comfort Tiffany
What makes glass melt at a lower temperature?
lead(II) oxide
What components of glass for networks?
silicon, boron, germanium
What component gives glass the ability to conduct electricity?
alkali metal ions
What material is useful in glassmaking because of its slow evaporation?
sodium selenite
Who coined the term "splat cooling"?
W. Klement
Who showed that q-glass could be produced from a melt?
NIST researchers
What word means that ceramics don't absorb liquids?
vitreous
How high of a temperature change can glass-ceramics handle?
1000 °C
What were the areas at the center of an old sheet of glass called?
bull's-eyes
What was the benefit of installing glass with the thick side at the bottom, in addition to avoiding water accumulation?
stability
How is "glass" defined in physics?
a solid formed by rapid melt quenching
What does glass not have, leading some to think it is a liquid?
first-order phase transition
Atomically, glass is similar to what?
a supercooled liquid
What drives the wider acceptance of renewable energy technologies?
Public policy and political leadership
How much was the total investment in renewable energy in 2012?
$244 billion
Who has shown support for ambitious renewable energy goals?
EU member countries
By the end of 2011, total renewable power capacity worldwide exceeded what number?
1,360 GW
Who was the UN under-secretary in 2011?
Achim Steiner
Which group projected that solar plant may produce most of the world's electricity within 50 years?
International Energy Agency
Who led the world in renewable energy production in 2013?
China
What is getting cheaper as a result of technilogical change?
Renewable energy technologies
What is the most economic solution for new grid-connected capacity in areas with good resources?
Renewable energy
What is one problem with biomass?
material directly combusted in cook stoves produces pollutants
What is the term referring to electricity generated by hydropower?
Hydroelectricity
Hydropower is produced in how many countries?
150
What was the geothermal capacity in 1975?
1 GW
Where have the majority of photovoltaic power stations been built?
Europe
Where is Desert Sunlight Solar Farm currently under construction?
Riverside County, California
Global wind power installations increased by how much in 2010?
35,800 MW
How is the wind industry in the USA able to produce more power at lower cost?
by using taller wind turbines with longer blades
Where is the Ivanpah Solar Power Facility located?
California's Mojave Desert
Nearly all gasoline sold in the U.S. is mixed with what percentage of ethanol?
10 percent
What can be made from plant matter composed primarily of inedible celllose fibers thta form the stems and branches of most plants?
Cellulosic ethanol
As of 2008, geothermal power development was underway in more than how many countries?
40
The PV industry has seen drops in module prices since what year?
2008
Why do utility operators often reject renewable resources?
because they are trained to think only in terms of big, conventional power plants
Lester Brown states that the market does not incorporate what?
the indirect costs of providing goods or services into prices
What involves lowering income taxes while raising levies?
Tax shifting
Besides tax shifting, what is another need?
subsidy shifting
As of 2012, what accounts for about half of new nameplate electrical capacity?
renewable energy
What group advocates leveling the playing field?
International Solar Energy Society
What country is reducing its coal subsidy?
Germany
Setting national renewable energy targets can be an important part of what?
renewable energy policy
What determines the extent to which renewable energy is to be incorporated into a country's generation mix?
Public policy
What is the driving force behind voluntary green electricity within the EU?
liberalized electricity markets
What made a strong economic case for investing in low carbon technologies?
Stern Review
What helped the industry weather the 2009 economic crisis better than other sectors?
New government spending, regulation, and policies
What plays a major role in the energy mix of many countries?
renewable energy
Who is United Nations' Secretary-General?
Ban Ki-moon
In 2012, solar electricity consumption increased by what percentage?
58 percent
What motivated the incentive to use 100 percent renewable energy?
global warming
Who is a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Stanford University?
Mark Z. Jacobson
Why is renewable energy an attractive option?
can supply significantly greater amounts of electricity than the total current or projected domestic demand
For what is Palermo known?
history, culture, architecture and gastronomy
In what year was Palermo founded?
734 BC
What types of churches attract tourists to Palermo?
Romanesque, Gothic and Baroque
What geographic form is Palermo surrounded by?
mountains
How can former rivers be recognised presently?
the streets that were built on them follow their shapes
What did Phoenicans name their settlement in 734BC?
"Ziz."
Why was the first settlement named Paleapolis?
in order to distinguish it from a second settlement built during the 5th century BC, called Neapolis
In which War did Greeks and Phoenicians fight over control of Sicily?
Sicilian Wars
How had the Vandals earned their strong reputation?
occupied all the Roman provinces in North Africa by 455
How long did Muslim control of Palermo last?
120 years
Who is considered a hero by natives for ending Muslim control of Palermo?
Robert Guiscard
What year did Sicily become ruled by the Holy Roman Empire?
1194
After what treaty did Savoia gain control of Italy?
Treaty of Utrecht (1713)
Who led the first insurrection in Europe in 1848?
Giuseppe La Masa
Who was blamed for the week long rebellion of 1866?
anarchists and the Church, specifically the Archbishop of Palermo
To what does the term "Sack of Palermo" refer?
speculative building practices that have filled the city with poor buildings
What is Palermo's climate classification?
hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Köppen climate classification: Csa).
Where does the first of Palermo's circuits suround?
ancient core of the punic City - the so-called Palaeopolis (in the area east of Porta Nuova) and the Neopolis
What was the purpose of Castello a Mare?
to protect the port at La Cala
What is a heliometer?
solar "observatory"
How many people were living in the Palermo area in 2010?
1.2 million
On what does Palermo's economy rely?
tourism and services, but also has commerce, shipbuilding and agriculture
Which port is Sicily's primary port?
The port of Palermo
Who is the popular patron saint of Palermo?
Santa Rosalia
What is the symbol for Zinc?
Zn
What two metals are mixed to create Brass?
copper and zinc
Who named the element zinc?
Paracelsus
How many people are affected by zinc deficiency?
two billion
What color is zinc?
bluish-white
How many radioisotopes of zinc have been discovered?
Several dozen
What oxidation state dominates zinc?
+2
Because zinc has a filled d-shell, its compounds are usually what?
diamagnetic and mostly colorless.
What is necessary to stabilize the low oxidation state of zinc(l) compounds?
bulky ligands
What is not known for binary compounds of zinc?
noble gases
Zn(OH)2 is dissolved to form what in strong alkaline solutions?
zincates
Zinc oxide is believed to be mentioned in what ancient text?
The Charaka Samhita
Who is attributed as first documenting zinc?
Paracelsus
Who first patented the process that creates an oxide usable in the retort process?
William Champion's brother, John,
What is used to produce the metal zinc?
extractive metallurgy.
Large amounts of sulfur dioxide and cadmium vapor are produced due to what?
The production for sulfidic zinc ores
What two compounds is zinc more reactive than?
iron or steel
What makes zinc an efficient sacrificial anode?
relative reactivity of zinc and its ability to attract oxidation
What has zinc replaced in pipe organs?
lead/tin alloy
Aside from die casting, what are alloys of zinc mixed with copper, aluminium and magnesium used for?
spin casting
What can be done when small amounts of lead are added to alloys?
cold-rolled into sheets
In what form is 1/4 of zinc used in the US?
zinc compounds
What is added to wood in order to preserve it?
Zinc chloride
What is the most abundant zinc isotope?
64Zn
What consumable product is zinc included in?
vitamin and mineral supplements
What kind of cancer cells may zinc prove to kill?
prostate
What does organozinc chemisty describe?
physical properties, synthesis and reactions.
What role does zinc play in fingers, twists and clusters?
structural
What is the most common supplement in the US?
zinc oxide
Zinc oxide is used to fortify what product?
cereals
Symptoms ranging from diarrhea to eye lesions are from what?
mild zinc deficiency
What is one way that vegetarians and vegans obtain zinc?
plant sources
What are two billion people in the world deficient in?
zinc
In what type of soil is zinc deficiency most common?
high-pH soils
What kind of deficiency is common from taking 100-300mg of zinc daily?
copper
What can zinc cause damage to in the nose?
nerve receptors
What coin, as of 1982, is now primarily made of zinc?
pennies
What are dogs known to ingest?
Pennies
Who influenced many 19th century neoclassical architects?
Étienne-Louis Boullée and Claude Nicolas Ledoux
What century were most four influential books published?
18th century
Who was the "architect earl"?
Richard Boyle, 3rd Earl of Burlington
What additional influences were incorporated into neoclassical architecture by mid 18th century?
Ancient Greece
When was the second wave of neoclassical architecture?
Napoleonic Empire
What rediscoveries inspired interior designs of neoclassicism?
Pompeii and Herculaneum.
What were interiors seeking to recreate?
authentically Roman
Who began the new phase of neoclassical design?
Robert and James Adam
From around 1800 an influx of etchings and engravings came from where?
Greek architectural
Whose winning design for public competition began the dominance of Greek style architecture?
William Wilkins
How would the Empire style of France be characterized by comparison?
more grandiose
What other architecture style did neoclassical share similarities and vocabulary?
Late Baroque architecture
What ancient civilization utilized neoclassicism in city planning?
ancient Romans
What direction did British architecture go in mid 18th century?
Ancient Greco-Roman ideal
What author's 20th century writing caused interest in pure neoclassical design?
Albert Richardson
What is the name of the first wave of neoclassicism in France?
Louis XVI style
What is the earliest example of Greek architecture in France?
Charles de Wailly's crypt in the church of St Leu-St Gilles (1773–80
In what town is the oldest neoclassical architecture in Hungary?
Vác
When was Malta introduced to neoclassical architecture?
late 18th century
In what are of architecture is neoclassical currently classed?
New Classical Architecture
When was the lull in neoclassical architecture?
roughly post-World War II until the mid-1980s
Who has stirred controversy for development and design of Chelsea Barracks?
Prince Charles
Was CBC one of the first or last stations to adopt a 24 hour schedule?
last
In what year did the network end American programming?
1998
Which company owns the rights to National Hockey League broadcasts?
Rogers Communications
What did the 11pm broadcast of The National omit?
analysis and documentary segment
What times are generally reserved for local newscasts?
from 5:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m.
What year did HNIC begin being broadcasted on CBC?
1952
CBC was eclusive carrier of what other sport during the 2004-2005 season?
Curling
Which American newscast was taken off the air only two weeks after CBC began showing it?
The One
What year did the CBC begin contributing funds to the show Doctor Who?
2005
What stations did CBC broadcast in HD in 2005?
Toronto (CBLT-DT) and Montreal (CBMT-DT)
What station does not identify itself by its call letters?
Toronto's CBLT
What are private affiliates?
stations which are owned by commercial broadcasters but predominantly incorporate CBC programming within their schedules
Which CBC affiliate joined E! in February 2006?
CHBC-TV in Kelowna
What was Canada's date for the switch between analog and digital transmission?
August 31, 2011
When did CBC shut down its analogue transmitter?
September 2010
Why is CBC's coverage preferable to other networks in the US?
more complete and consistent
What was the deadline for converstion to digital transmission from analogue?
August 31, 2011
When was CBC's anologue upgrade extension set to expire?
August 31, 2012
How many people were intended to be served by digital transmitters, according to CBC's application?
113,930 people
How many transmitters does currently CBC operate after 2012?
27
How many transmitters did CBC intend to upgrade before August 2011?
15
On which day did CBC release an updated announcement stating they were striving to update all 27 transmitters?
On December 16, 2010
What percent of the previous population would a new digital transmitter have served in Fredicton in comparison to the analogue transmitter?
62.5%
On what day did the CRTC agree to allow CBCs broadcasting transmitters to remain active for another year?
August 18, 2011
On what date did the CTRC approve the shut down of CBC's analogue transmitters?
July 17, 2012
What are the Appalachian mountains called in French?
les Appalaches
How many provinces are in the mountain range?
thirteen provinces
What country do the Appalachian mountains extend into?
Canada
What does the term Appalachian refer to?
several different regions associated with the mountain range
What area did the Narvaez expedition explore?
northern coast of Florida
What area is usually grouped with the Appalachians? 
dissected plateau to the north and west of the mountains
What does the Great Appalachian Valley do?
divides the mountain system into two unequal portions
How tall are the mountains in Newfoundland?
3,000 ft
How many summits in PA are over 2,500 ft? 
over sixty summits
Where do the Blue Ridge Mountains begin?
southern Pennsylvania
Where did the mountains lay before the French and Indian War?
on the indeterminate boundary between Britain's colonies along the Atlantic and French areas centered in the Mississippi basin
Where did a lot of Germans settle? 
between the Susquehanna and Delaware Rivers
What is one typical bird found in the range?
wild turkey
How many species of tree squirrel are commonly found in the range?
five species
What trees are typically found in the dryer portions?
oak
What kind of oaks are in the central and southern portions?
black, northern red, white, chestnut and scarlet oaks
What is a property of objects which can be transferred to other objects or converted into different forms?
energy
Common energy forms include what?
kinetic energy of a moving object
How can the total energy of a system be calculated?
by adding up all forms of energy in the system
Give one example of energy transformation.
generating electric energy from heat energy via a steam turbine
What is determined by an object's movement through space?
kinetic energy
What is dependent upon electrical potential energy?
Elastic energy in materials
What is a term for living force?
vis viva
Who was possibly the first to use the term "energy" instead of vis viva?
Thomas Young
Who largely formalized the developments that led to the theory of conservation of energy?
William Thomson
What is another energy-related concept?
Lagrangian
When was Noether's theorem created?
1918
In the context of chemistry, what is an attribute of a substance as a consequence of it's atomic, molecular or aggregate structure?
energy
In biology, what is an attribute of all biological systems from the biosphere to the smallest living organism?
energy
What is also captured by plants as chemical potential energy in photosynthesis?
Sunlight
What does any living organism rely on to be able to grow and reproduce?
an external source of energy
What states that energy tends to become more evenly spread out across the universe?
The second law of thermodynamics
This drives many weather phenomena, save those generated by volcanic events.
Sunlight
What releases stored elastic potential energy in rocks?
Earthquakes
What is driven by various kinds of energy transformations?
stellar phenomena
In quantum mechanics, what is defined in terms of the energy operator as a time derivative of the wave function?
energy
What is it called when the rest mass of individual particles is destroyed but the inertia equivalent of the system of the two particles remains?
electron–positron annihilation
What states that there are strict limits to how efficiently heat can be converted into a work in a cyclic process?
Carnot's theorem
Name an example of a heavy isotope?
uranium
When does energy give rise to weight?
when it is trapped in a system with zero momentum
Matter may be converted to what?
energy
Thermodynamics divides energy information into what two kinds?
reversible processes and irreversible processes
As the universe evolves in time, more and more of its energy becomes trapped in what?
irreversible states
According to what, energy can neither be created nor destroyed by itself?
conservation of energy
What shows that the conservation of energy is a mathematical consequence of translational symmetry of time?
Noether's theorem
What are simply lowest quantum mechanical energy state of photons?
Virtual photons
What can be considered for the special case of systems which are closed to transfers of matter?
Energy transfer
What asserts that energy is always conserved and that heat flow is a form of energy transfer.
first law of thermodynamics
What is the principle that is vitally important to understanding the behaviour of a quantity closely related to energy?
entropy
Who defeated the native Prussians during the 13 century?
Teutonic Knights
Why were the prince electors able to proclaim themselves King of Prussia?
Because the duchy was outside of the core Holy Roman Empire
What year did the Kingdom of Prussia become the leading state of the German Empire?
1871
Which group took possession of Prussia in the 13th century?
Teutonic Knights
Who converted to Lutheranism and secularized the Prussian branch of the Teutonic Order?
Albert of Brandenburg-Ansbach
In what year did Maximilian III die?
1618
Brandenburg was part of what dominating force?
Holy Roman Empire
What wiped out one third of East Prussia's population during the early 1700's?
the plague and famine
In what year was Royal Prussia annexed?
1772
What defeat led to Prussia having to swear its allegiance to Napoleon?
Battle of Jena-Auerstedt
Who instigated the Prussian reforms?
Heinrich Friedrich Karl vom und zum Stein and Karl August von Hardenberg
Was the population of the Prussian province in 1900?
1,996,626 people
Which country invaded east Prussia in World War I?
Russian Empire
In what year did Germany become a republic?
1918
Who was the leader of the East Prussian Nazi Party?
Erich Koch
How were East Prussians able to pay for land improvements and road construction?
publicly funded emergency relief programs
In what year did the Nazi's alter around one-third of the toponyms of the area?
1938
How many people lived in Easy Prussia in 1939?
2.49 million
In what year was the Regierungsbezirk Zichenau annexed?
1939
What two countries were East Prussia partitioned into after World Was II?
Poland and the Soviet Union
How many Germans were living in East Prussia in 1945?
800,000
In what year did the Polish government officially take over the administration in East Prussia?
1945
What year did East Prussia become an official province of Russia?
1946
What happened to the Curonians who lived in the area in East Prussia?
expelled by the Soviet Union
Once the German populations was removed, what three groups  settled into the nothern area?
ethnic Russians, Belarusians, and Ukrainians
What has since been considered in Kalinigrad?
reverting Kaliningrad's name to its historic name of Königsberg
What were common task of the corporation formed by the urban and rural districts?
schools, traffic installations, hospitals, cultural institutions, jails
The Ottoman Empire is also known as what three other names?
Turkish Empire, Ottoman Turkey or Turkey
Under the reign of who did the Ottoman empire control much of Southeastern Europe?
Suleiman the Magnificent
What was the capital of the Ottoman empire?
Constantinople
An anglicization of the name Osman I results in what word?
Ottoman
Who was the father of Osman I?
Ertuğrul
Which city did Osman's son capture?
Bursa
What was an objective of Turkey after its expansion into the Balkans?
conquest of Constantinople
Who recovered Ottoman empire territories in the Balkans in the 1430s to the 1450s?
Murad II
Who was the son of Murad II?
Mehmed the Conqueror
During what years was Suleiman the Magnificent alive?
1520–1566
France and the Ottoman Empire united against what?
Habsburg rule
Who argues that there was steep decline and stagnation after the death of Suleiman?
Stephen Lee
Poor rule by what class of people strained the empire?
Sultans
Avoiding the strength of Ottoman trade was accomplished with the discovery of what?
new maritime trade routes
Which Spaniard led a battle in 1571?
Philip II
What was the late 16th century war against Habsburg Austria known as?
The Long War
Who recaptured Iraq in 1639?
Murad IV
Which Grand Vizier attempted a siege of Vienna in 1683?
Grand Vizier Kara Mustafa Pasha
Oltenia is also known as what?
Little Walachia
What is one university that was formed in the early 18th century of the empire?
Istanbul Technical University
Which group supported by Russia entered Balta in 1768?
Ukrainian Haidamaks
During what years did the Serbian Revolution occur?
1804–1815
How many primary schools existed for Christians in the Ottoman empire in 1861?
571
During what years did the Crimean War take place?
1853–1856
What historian wrote that banks were the single greatest threat to mid-east independence? 
Eugene Rogan
Who held back the Bulgarian uprising in 1876?
Ottoman bashi-bazouks
Millions of Muslims left the empire and migrated to what places?
Anatolia and Eastern Thrace
What era kicked off the end of the Ottoman empire?
Second Constitutional Era
Where did the Ottoman empire begin its part in the first world war?
Middle Eastern theatre
When did the Russian Caucasus Army advance into eastern Anatolia?
In 1915
What was the highest ranked person in the Ottoman Empire until the 19th century?
Sultan was the highest position
What was another name for the Ottoman Empire?
House of Osman
The Ottoman Caliphate claimed by Murad Ir epresented what in Islam?
The highest position
The sultan of the ottoman empire had what honorific?
the supreme monarch
What was the name of the secular legal system under the Ottoman Caliphate?
Qanun (or Kanun)
What were the primary courts of the empire?
Islamic courts
Who was the one that presided over the empire's Islamic Courts?
Qadi
Reforms in the Ottoman court system were based on what model?
French models
In what century did the first Osman I organized military unit form?
13th century
On what continent did the Ottoman Navy contribute most?
European continent
Which sultan distrusted his admirals during the Russo-Turkish war?
Sultan Abdülhamid II
What was the first date that the Ottoman empire had an air-based military unit?
June 1909
The goal of developing Bursa and Istanbul was an intentional act to create what?
commercial and industrial centres
The economic goal of the state was to serve as what for the ruler?
consolidation and extension of the ruler's power
Two of the most developed economic organizations under the Ottoman Empire were what?
the treasury and chancery
What serviced as the foundation for the structure of the economy of the Ottoman empire?
its geopolitical structure
What is believed to have caused the opening of new sea routes during the Ottoman Empire?
change in relations between the Ottoman Turks and central Europe
The development of what caused people to expand areas of cultivation in the Ottoman Empire?
commercial centres and routes
The rise of ports caused what in populations?
the clustering of populations
The annexation of what two regions resulted in large groups of Muslim refugees coming into the empire?
the Crimean and Balkan regions
What was the official language of the Ottoman Empire?
Ottoman Turkish
What was the public's literacy rate in leading up to the early 19th century in the empire?
about 2–3%
The Empire had a Christian majority until what time?
the second half of the 15th century
The Muslim sect known as the Druze is considered what?
heretical
What system deemed non-Muslims subjects of the empire but unbound by Muslim law?
the millet system
The Ottoman dynasty was preceded by what sultanate?
Sultanate of Rum
What type of Ottoman poetry is ritualized?
Divan poetry
Prose in the Ottoman empire did not develop to a higher level until which century?
the 19th century
What was the biggest influence from the west on Ottoman literature?
French literature
What 1876 Novel did Namik Kemal write?
İntibâh ("Awakening")
Ottoman artists mixed Chinese art with the art of what else?
traditional Byzantine art
Were would one find the sheets where Ottoman's created illuminated decorations?
muraqqa
Which art was important in religious symbolism and as a decoration in the Ottoman empire?
carpet weaving
The elites of the Ottoman empire found what type of music important?
Ottoman classical music
What are the three most used Anatolian and central asian instruments in Ottoman Classical music?
the saz, the bağlama, the kemence
The cuisine known as Ottoman cuisine is in reference to the food eaten where?
the capital, Istanbul, and the regional capital cities
Turkish cuisine originates from what source?
a shared Ottoman cuisine
In what century did the Ottoman's start to desire foreign manuscripts?
15th Century
When did European sport clubs begin to form in the Ottoman empire?
19th century
Which philosophy branch is concerned with issues surrounding ontology?
Philosophy of space and time
Who expounded the earliest recorded Western philosophy of time?
Ptahhotep
Which christian philosopher ruminated on time?
St. Augustine
Which 11th century Muslim physicist discussed space perception and its epistemological implications? 
al-Haytham
When did Kant publish one of the most influential works in the history of the philosophy of space and time.
1781
What did Leibniz argue against?
the absolutist position
Leibniz's example involves how many universes?
two
What stood out in Clark's response to Leibniz?
the bucket argument
Leibniz describes space as existing only as a relation between what?
objects
How did Mach describe thought experiments like the bucket argument?
problematic
What did Mach argue about the water experiment in an otherwise empty universe?
would remain flat
lbert Einstein proposed that the laws of physics should be based on what principle?
relativity
In classical physics, an inertial reference frame is one in which an object without force does what?
does not accelerate
How does Einstein advocate Mach's principle?
partially
Coordinative definition has how many major features?
two
The symmetry group of the general theory of relativity includes what?
all differentiable transformations
How many contradictory facts does the problem of the direction of time arise from?
two
How are things in statistical mechanics? 
complicated
What does the third type of solution to the problem of the direction of time argue?
the laws are not time-reversal symmetric
Who argues that the fundamental laws of physics are laws of temporal evolution?
Tim Maudlin
Who started the discussion within analytic philosophy on the problem of the flow of time?
J. M. E. McTaggart
According to what theory is time an ordering of various realities?
Presentism
How similar are the positions on the persistence of objects?
somewhat similar
How can asymmetry of causation be observed?
in a non-arbitrary way
What era is commonly known as the final phase of the Stone Age?
the Neolithic
What time period marks the start of Neolithic culture?
10,200 – 8,800 BC
What objects were not used by early farm societies in the Near East ?
pottery
When did the The Neolithic 1 (PPNA) period start?
roughly 10,000 years ago
When did the The Neolithic 2 (PPNB) era start?
around 8,800 BCE
When did the Pre-Pottery Neolithic A (PPNA)  phase start?
Around 10,200 BC
What are the names of two researchers who divided neolithic chronology into ten periods?
Jacques Cauvin and Oliver Aurenche
When did the domestication of sheep first appear in Egypt?
6,000 BC
When did agrarian societies start to arise in Southeast Europe?
7th millennium BC
When was the earliest known Asian farm site found in South Korea?
2012
What major trends appeared in Mesoamerica during 4500 BC?
crop domestication and sedentary lifestyles
What social groups were formed during the Neolithic age of Eurasia?
small tribes
What caused a major increase in social inequality?
domestication of large animals
What was the cultural aspect was the major center of life?
the household
Where was evidence of fortified settlements found?
Linearbandkeramik
What production trait existed in tribal groups that were controlled by charismatic leaders?
Control of labour
What lifestyle element changed significantly from the paleolithic to the neolithic era?
shelter
What trend led to a major shift in the livelihoods of early cultures?
crop farming and cultivation
What were the causes of famine in early farm towns?
drought or pests
What food related trend was significant in the new agrarian societies?
diet
What type of occupation were Neolithic people considered to be proficient at?
farmers
What did Neolithic people use mud-brick to build?
houses and villages
What did early humans use to make clothing?
animal skins
In which nation was Friedrich Hayek born?
Austria-Hungary
Hayek became a member of which group in 1984?
Order of the Companions of Honour
Who was Hayek's father?
August von Hayek
Who's occupation inspired Hayek when he was older?
His father's
Who was among the first readers of Ludwig  Wittgenstein's book?
Hayek
What did Hayek conclude regarding his brothers?
they were somehow of a different generation
Where did Hayek acquire his doctorates?
University of Vienna
What work did Hayek begin in 1923?
research assistant
What ideology was Hayek originally in support of?
democratic socialism
What position did Hayek gain at the Austrian Institute?
director
What did Hayek write regarding fascism and socialism?
The Road to Serfdom
Upon leaving London, for what college did he choose to work?
University of Chicago
Which of Hayek's works had a profound influence on those at the University of Chicago?
The Road to Serfdom
What topic were Hayek's next two books going to cover?
the liberal order
What country did Hayek move to in 1962?
West Germany
What political party was Margaret Thatcher the head of in 1975?
British Conservative Party
What was the name of the agreement Hayek criticized in 1977?
Lib-Lab pact
Which party was criticized for being less concerned about liberty and democracy?
the Conservative Party
What group was Hayek inducted into by the Queen of England?
Order of the Companions of Honour
What was the reason given for Hayek's 1991 award from the President?
a "lifetime of looking beyond the horizon"
What is the name of Mises' 1912 book?
Theory of Money and Credit
Lionel Robbins came to head which school in 1929?
London School of Economics
Hayek's critical analysis of Keyne's work was published under what title?
Prices and Production
What was the result of Hayek's Prices and Production?
works were largely ignored
What topic did Hayek never write a book about as he said he would?
the dynamics of capital
What did Hayek claim those who must distribute resources would lack most?
enough information
What did some socialists bring up as a rebuttal to Hayek's resource distribution argument?
general equilibrium theory
Which of Hayek's books argued against the socialist price mechanism?
The Use of Knowledge in Society
What was the name of the ideology Hayek criticized?
collectivism
Hayek believed the state could aid the economy by doing what?
creating a "safety net"
In what economic field of study does Hayek's views differ from those in macroeconomics?
microeconomics
When did Hayek start working on Abuse of Reason?
During World War II
In what year was the book published in which Hayek developed Hebbian learning?
1952
When did Hayek begin presenting his ideas on the limits of human knowledge?
the latter half of his career
What concept did Hayek dislike?
social justice
What has Hayek's views on the market been used to defend?
non-interventionist policy
According to Wapshott, who was promoting the implementation of universal health care?
Hayek
Who criticizes Hayek's ability to provide specific facts?
Arthur M. Diamond
At what point did Hayek claim dictatorships may be necessary?
a transitional period
Hayek believed that authoritarianism was very different from what?
totalitarianism
What did Hayek claim to be better than investing in government spending programs?
private investment in the public markets
Which economist is cited the most by winners of the Nobel prize in that field?
Kenneth Arrow
Whose 1980 book mentions "informal" economics?
Milton Friedman's
Which fellow Vienna native was Hayek friends with?
Karl Popper
Which of Hayek's books had an impact on those against postmodernism?
The Road to Serfdom
In what year was Margaret Thatcher elected Prime Minister?
1979
What ideology did Hayek not agree with in an essay appended to The Constitution of Liberty?
conservatism
What did Hayek suggest as an alternative to being called a libertarian?
Old Whig
What term do those who disagree with Hayek use to describe his ideals?
neoliberalism
Who makes the claim that Hayek was actually a conservative?
Madsen Pirie
What is diarrhea?
the condition of having at least three loose or liquid bowel movements each day
What is the most common cause of diarrhea?
an infection of the intestines
What are some ways to prevent diarrhea?
improved sanitation, clean drinking water, and hand washing with soap
HOw many cases of diarrhea are there a year?
1.7 to 5 billion cases
What is secretory diarrhea?
an increase in the active secretion, or there is an inhibition of absorption
What occures with osmotic diarrhea?
s when too much water is drawn into the bowels
When does inflammatory diarrhea occur?
when there is damage to the mucosal lining or brush border
Diarrheal disease has what effects on a person?
a negative impact on both physical fitness and mental development
What is IBS?
irritable bowel syndrome
What is a good indicator of the rate of infectious diarrhea?
Poverty
Why is proper nutrition important?
for health and functioning, including the prevention of infectious diarrhea
What did Nesse and Williams learn?
diarrhea may function as an evolved expulsion defense mechanism
What has had major effects on the transmission of diarrheal diseases?
Basic sanitation techniques
What is a major means of the spread of diarrhea disease?
water contamination
What is the downfall of using immunization against the pathogens that cause disease?
it does require targeting certain pathogens for vaccination
What can be done to combate dietary deficiences?
promoting better eating practices
What is the basic treatment many cases of diarrhea need?
replacing lost fluid and salts is the only treatment needed
What can be used to prevent dehydration?
Oral rehydration solution (ORS)
What are not recommended for younger kids because it can casue more dehydration?
Drinks especially high in simple sugars, such as soft drinks and fruit juices
What does WHO recommend?
a child with diarrhea continue to be fed
Are antibiotics used in diarrhea instances?
they are usually not used except in specific situations
What are the origins of the word madrasa?
Arabic
What are the root origins of the word madrasah?
triconsonantal Semitic
What is the English connotative understanding of the word madrash? 
Islamic institutions
What age groups are usually enrolled in madaris?
all ages
What is the meaning of Islamic education?
education in the light of Islam itself
Where was the first madrasa located?
the estate of Hazrat Zaid bin Arkam
Which class of people founded the madaris during the medieval period?
ruling elite
Who traditionally paid for scholars to study natural sciences?
royal courts
When were the first recorded Islamic elementary schools?
10th century
What type of skills did Ibn Sina state children should learn in secondary education?
manual skills
What discipline was studied in traditional madrasah?
religious sciences
What term refers to Islamic law?
fiqh
What did earning the ijazat al-tadris award students?
licence to teach
What determination of the study of law was held to much debate?
whether certain opinions of law were orthodox
When did some madaris become considered like traditional colleges?
10th century
When was al-Qarawiyin University founded?
859
When was Al-Azhar University founded?
975
What field does the ijazah signify expertise in?
Islamic religious law of sharīʻah
Who argues that madaris are not the same as traditional European universities?
Medievalist specialists
When did more madaris begin to form more rapidly?
11th and 12th centuries
What institutions have been considered to take some its ideas from madaris?
European university
What other religion was considered to share parallels in teaching styles with the Muslim faith?
Christian
What percentage of Islamic women were educated before the 1200s?
less than one percent
What disciplines were women trained in during the first century?
music, dancing and poetry
What titles could women earn by going to Islamic schools?
scholars and teachers
Who traveled abroad to get an education at madaris?
Ottomans
What was the essential mission of Islamic schools in the Ottoman Empire?
spiritual learning
What kind of social service was provided through the madaris?
aid to the poor through soup kitchens
What group makes up a larger percentage of people in India?
Deobandis
How many Muslim students are there in Kerala?
over 500,000
Who decides if Muslims attend secular schools or traditional madaris?
students
How many madrasahs are in Sinagapore?
six
How many regions in Singapore have widely accepted madaris?
16
When was the first madrasa started in North America?
1983
What is the common western perception of the teaching received at madaris?
anti-Americanism and radical extremism
Who founded Philadelphia?
William Penn
What was the historical economic base of Philadelphia?
manufacturing
What is the GDP of the city?
$388 billion
What native American tribe lived in the area before settlement?
Lenape
Who were the first settlers to the Delaware Valley?
the Dutch
Who founded the Pennsylvania colony?
William Penn
What important revolutionary document was signed in Philadelphia?
Declaration of Independence,
When did the US government leave Philadelphia for D.C.?
1799
What was Philadelphia's biggest industry during the 19th century?
textiles
Who carried out the first strike in North America?
immigrants
Which political party controlled Philadelphia in the early 20th century?
Republican
When was the peak of Philadelphia's population?
1950
Who planned the central city?
Thomas Holme
How many planning districts make up Philadelphia?
18
Name 6 important Philadelphia architects?
Benjamin Latrobe, William Strickland, John Haviland, John Notman, Thomas U. Walter, and Samuel Sloan
How tall is the City Hall?
548 ft
What is the dominant type of house in Philadelphia?
row house
What climate zone does Philadelphia fall under?
humid subtropical climate zone
What is the average January temp?
33.0 °F
What is the 2014 population?
1,560,297
What is the percent of blacks?
43.4%
What is the density?
11,457 people per square mile
At the last census how many households had children under 18 in them?
24.9 percent
What was the median household income in 2013?
$36,836
What is the city's largest age group?
25- to 29-year-old
Name the six largest European ethnic groups in the city?
Irish, Italians, Polish, Germans, English, and Greeks
Name three sub-cultures in the Center City?
yuppie, bohemian, and hipster
What percent of 5 year olds or older speak English?
79.12%
Unemployment rate in 2014?
7.8%
Which is the biggest historical sites?
Independence National Historical Park
Name the archaeology museum?
University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology
Name the accent spoken in the area?
The Philadelphia dialect
Name two districts with good night life?
South Street and Old City
Which American city has the most public art?
Philadelphia
Name a type of music from the 70's that influenced the nation?
Philadelphia soul
What water sport is popular in the city?
Rowing
What type of government does Philadelphia have?
strong-mayor version of the mayor-council
What is the main trial court called?
The Philadelphia County Court of Common Pleas (First Judicial District)
What party dominated until the mid-20th century
Republican Party
How many congressional districts are there in the city?
four
Did the crime rate go up or down after the War years?
pronounced rise in crime in the years following World War II
When did shootings peak in the city?
2006
Has public school enrollment dropped or increased in the last 5 years?
dropped
Have grad rates fallen or increased in the last years?
increased
What is the largest private institution in the city?
Temple University
How many major papers are published?
two
Name a smaller newspaper?
Philadelphia Tribune
Where was the first radio license granted?
St. Joseph's College
Who owned W3XE?
Philco
When did SEPTA service get cut?
1981
Name the main airport?
Philadelphia International Airport (PHL)
What is the main north-south freeway called?
Delaware Expressway
What is another name for the Roosevelt Expressway?
U.S. 1
What bus line uses the city as a hub?
Greyhound Lines
Name 2 rail companies that use the city as a hub?
Pennsylvania Railroad and the Reading Railroad
What was the first water supply system called?
Fairmount Water Works,
What is the largest city owned gas utility?
Philadelphia Gas Works
What area code is used in Philadelphia in 1947?
215
What city in Poland is a sister city to Philadelphia?
Toruń
What was Kerry's major?
political science
Where did Kerry get a law degree?
Boston College Law School
When did Kerry run for president?
2004
What is Kerry's middle name?
Forbes
What was Kerry's role in the Yale Political Union as a junior?
President of the Union
When did Kerry join the Naval Reserve?
February 18, 1966
When did Kerry publish his memories of Vietnam?
1986
Where was Kerry's boat on Dec 2-3, 1968?
near a peninsula north of Cam Ranh Bay
When did Kerry earn his 2nd Purple Heart?
February 20, 1969
When did Kerry earn a Silver Star?
February 28, 1969
Where did Kerry receive his Silver Star?
An Thoi
Where was Kerry on Mar 13, 1969?
on the Bái Háp River
What boat was Rassmann on?
PCF-94
Which wound allowed Kerry to leave combat duty?
third
Who kept George W. Bush out of Vietnam?
his father
How many members did VVAW have when Kerry joined it?
about 20,000
What did Kerry do on Apr 22, 1971?
appeared before a U.S. Senate committee hearing
When was Kerry arrested for protesting?
May 30, 1971
Who had Kerry considered running against in 1970?
Democrat Philip J. Philbin
What was Paul Sheehy's job?
attorney
What party did Durkin run as?
Independent
How many votes did Cronin get against Kerry?
110,970
Where did Kerry move after the 1972 election?
Belvidere, Lowell
When did Kerry become an ADA?
January 1977
When did Kerry consider running for president if Droney didn't?
1978
What was Paul Tsongas's job in 1984?
junior U.S. Senator from Massachusetts
When did Kerry visit Nicaragua?
April 18, 1985
Who did Kerry's staff expose in an Oct 14 report?
Lieutenant Colonel Oliver North
Who was the State Department giving money to?
drug traffickers
Where is the BCCI based?
Pakistan
Who ran against Kerry in 1996?
William Weld
What was Kerry supposed to say when he 'botched a joke'?
"... you end up getting us stuck in a war in Iraq. Just ask President Bush."
Who did the Washington Post say Kerry was an envoy for?
Afghanistan and Pakistan
Who said Kerry was the 'top Senate liberal'?
the National Journal
When did Kerry say he intended to support the Iraq War?
October 9, 2002
What committee did Kerry chair in 1991-1993?
the Senate Select Committee on POW/MIA Affairs
Where was John Edwards a senator?
North Carolina
Who did Kerry criticize during the 2004 campaign?
President George W. Bush
What was Kerry's PAC?
Keeping America's Promise
When was it reported that Kerry would become SoS?
December 15, 2012
Who complained about how Kerry ran the State Dept?
Career State Department officials
Who met Kerry in Jan 2014?
Archbishop Pietro Parolin
Who was Syria's president in 2014?
Bashar al-Assad
Where did Kerry speak in Nov 2013?
the Organization of American States
Who was Kerry's paternal grandmother?
Ida Lowe
When did Kerry and his wife separate?
1982
Who is Kerry's 2nd wife?
Maria Teresa Thierstein Simões Ferreira
What was Teresa Heinz Kerry's net worth in 2004 according to Forbes?
$750 million
What religion is Kerry?
Roman Catholic
Who interviewed Kerry in Oct 2004 about his religion?
Christianity Today
Who said Kerry is an 'avid cyclist'?
Sports Illustrated
What type of yacht did Kerry buy?
a Friendship 75
How many square kilometers is Rajasthan?
342,239
When was the first usage of the word Rajasthan?
1829
Some portions of Rajasthan were involved with what ancient civilization?
the Indus Valley Civilization
Members of what tribe were exterminated in Ajmer?
Gurjars
What empire stopped Arab invasions?
Gurjar Pratihar Empire
How many princely states of Rajputana contain?
nineteen
What group in the Rajasthan region started to have internal disputes?
Mughals
Which mountain range goes through Rajasthan?
the Aravalli Range
Dry and sandy conditions are indicative of which region of Rajasthan? 
The northwestern portion
What is a characteristic of the region to the east of the Aravalli range?
more fertile and better watered
How many meters high is Guru Shikhar?
1,722
Which region contains Desert National Park?
Jaisalmer
What Rajasthani national park is known for its tigers?
Ranthambore National Park
The Rajasthan economy is largely composed of what type of industries?
agricultural and pastoral
What type of fibre is Rajasthan ranked 2nd in production of?
polyester fibre
What are earnings from crude oil in Rajasthan expected to be in 2013?
₹250 million per day
What type of food was preferred in Rajasthani cooking?
Food that could last for several days and could be eaten without heating
What type of dance comes from Jodhpur Marwar?
The Ghoomar dance
Bagaru and Sanganer represent what type of art?
prints
What type of possession has been documented in Rajasthan?
Spirit possession
What was the literacy rate of Rajasthan in 1991?
38.55%
What are the to main educational hubs of Rajasthan?
Jodhpur and Kota
What percentage of India's foreign visitors came to Rajasthan from 2009 to 2010?
14 percent
Who built the famous decorated havelis in Rajasthan?
Rajput kings
What country is Guam a territory of?
United States
What is the official name given for Guam's indigenous people?
Chamorros
Along with Guam, which other territories were in the United States jurisdiction before WWII?
American Samoa, Hawaii, and the Philippines
Which four classes made up the ancient -Chamorro society?
chamorri (chiefs), matua (upper class), achaot (middle class), and mana'chang (lower class)
What was the nationality of Magellan?
Portuguese
In what year was Guam claimed by Spain?
1565
When did Spanish colonization commence?
June 15, 1668
When did the Smallpox epidemic take place?
1688
When did Captain Damian de Esplana arrive?
1674
When did the United States take control of the island?
1898
Why were the Chamorros brought to Guam?
to serve as interpreters
What established Guam as an unincorporated territory?
Guam Organic Act of 1950
How many square miles is Guam?
212
How many miles is Guam across?
30 miles
What is Guam's climate characterized as?
tropical marine
hat years did the Spanish rule Guam?
1668–1898
What two indiginous pre-hispanic culture has survived to this point?
chenchule' and inafa'maolek
What is the culture of Pengngan Chamorro based on?
social protocol
What posses some challenges for the Chamorros who find it hard to keep their culture?
cosmopolitan and multicultural nature of modern Guam
How many people make up the Guam legislation?
15
What major movement occurred in Guam in the 80's and 90's?
becoming a commonwealth
What has the U.S military proposed?
building a new aircraft carrier berth on Guam
What tourist commonly visits Guam?
Japanese
What is the name of the pact held between the United States, Micronesia, Marshal Islands, and Palau?
The Compacts of Free Association
In what year was the local postage stamp overprinted and has since been replaced?
1899
What determines the speed in which mail reaches Guam from the United States?
on size and time of year
What is considered to be the lifeline of Guam?
The Commercial Port
What is the name of the international airport in Guam?
Antonio B. Won Pat
Which animal was accidentally introduced into Guam?
brown tree snake
What are the names of the two native birds in Guam before the brown snake intrusion?
Guam rail (or ko'ko' bird in Chamorro) and the Guam flycatcher
What insect was detected in 2007?
coconut rhinoceros beetle
What plagues the Guam dry season?
Wildfires
What has Guam recently being trying to protect?
coral reef habitats
What are the names of the two colleges in Guam?
The University of Guam (UOG) and Guam Community College
How many students as of 2000 were attending public schools in Guam?
32,000
Who runs Guam's main health care facility?
The Government of Guam
What is commonly contrasted with empiricism?
rationalism
What theory was Aristotle's explanation based on?
his theory of potentiality and actuality
What is the Stoic view?
the mind starts blank, but acquires knowledge as the outside world is impressed upon it
Whose idea was 'tabula rasa'?
Aristotle
What was 'Abubacer' normally called?
Abu Bakr Ibn Tufail
When was da Vinci born?
1452
When was Vincenzo Galilei born?
ca. 1520
When was the British empiricism period?
17th century
When was 'An Essay Concerning Human Understanding' published?
1689
Who wrote 'Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge'?
George Berkeley
What did Hume bring to empiricism?
a new level of skepticism
What types of human knowledge did Hume say there are?
relations of ideas and matters of fact
What did Hume think our beliefs are?
a result of accumulated habits, developed in response to accumulated sense experiences
What conclusion do most of Hume's followers disagree with?
that belief in an external world is rationally unjustifiable
What did Mill say knowledge comes from?
an inductive inference from direct experience
What phase of empiricism ended in the 1940s?
phenomenalist
What are other terms for logical empiricism?
logical positivism or neopositivism
When was Bertrand Russell born?
1872
Who were extreme empiricists?
neopositivists
When did pragmatism arise?
In the late 19th and early 20th century
When was Peirce born?
1839
How long before Peirce did Hume write?
a century
Who wrote 'Lectures on Pragmatism'?
Peirce
Who came up with 'radical empiricism'?
William James
Who came up with 'instrumentalism'?
John Dewey
What do idealist philosophies say is constructed in our minds?
reality
What Indian thinkers were early idealists?
Hindu
What was the ethnicity of Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling?
German
What does ἰδεῖν mean in English?
to see
What is the term used for philosophies that consider the spiritual to be of paramount importance?
idealist
Who is a notable subjective idealist?
George Berkeley
In what philosophy was Christian idealism often rooted?
Neoplatonism
Who regarded Plato as the oldest exponent of metaphysical objective idealism?
Simone Klein
What sort of philosopher was Plotinus?
neoplatonist
Along with phenomenalism, what is another term for subjective idealism?
immaterialism
Who was known as the "Cambridge Platonist"?
John Norris
Who coined the term "thing-in-itself"?
Immanuel Kant
What sort of thinkers were Foster and Luce?
subjectivists
What school of thought did Berkeley belong to?
Subjective Idealism
Who wrote Parerga and Paralipomena?
Schopenhauer
Who censured Kant for his agnostic tautology?
Friedrich Nietzsche
According to Hegel, what sort of idealist was Fichte?
transcendental
When was Science of Logic written?
1812–1814
In Hegel's thought, what inner reality is possessed by both subject and object?
Spirit
Who was a notable critic of Hegel?
Kierkegaard
Who wrote Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences?
Hegel
What sort of reality did Hegel perceive God's mind to be?
ultimate
Who wrote The Refutation of Idealism?
Moore
Who is a notable exponent of pluralistic idealism?
Gottfried Leibniz
Who was an exponent of so-called "Boston Personalism"?
Bowne
With what university is J.M.E. McTaggart affiliated?
Cambridge
What was the name of the philosophy preached by Thomas Davidson?
apeirotheism
Among what twentieth century scientists was idealism popular?
physicists
How do receive information from the physical world?
messages transmitted along the nerves to the seat of consciousness
What makes up Education?
knowledge, skills, values, beliefs, and habits
What occurred after the Fall of Rome with literature?
Catholic Church became the sole preserver
Where does formal education take place?
school environment
Whats the typical age range for pre-school?
three to seven
What is another term used for Primary education?
elementary
What does secondary education comprise of?
formal education that occurs during adolescence
When did secondary education emerge in the United States?
1910
What was another name used for Higher Education?
tertiary, third stage, or postsecondary education
What does University education include?
teaching, research, and social services activities,
What was a rule for disabled people in the past for education?
not eligible for public education
What is another term used for Special Education Services?
alternative
Whos educatgion approach was introduced in Germany in the 19th century and is used in most Kindergartens?
Friedrich Fröbel's
What makes up Indigenous education?
indigenous knowledge, models, methods, and content
Who defines informal learning?
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
Where does informal learning usually take place?
outside educational establishments
When was the 'education through recreation" applied to childhood?
19th century
What does Auto didacticism generally mean?
learning on your own
In what year did e-learning jump 14 times over traditional leaning?
2012
What is not as common in open education?
merit-system degree
What does Universal Primary Education belong to?
international Millennium Development Goals
What has come from similarities in systems?
increase in international student exchanges
What does LCPS stand for?
low cost private schools
What are some of the claims being pointed towards education inequality?
children did not exceed the education of their parents
What is the discrepancy between Developed and less developed countries?
Developed countries have people with more resources
What is one good trait about students from developed countries?
have the will and the way to do many things
What is the meaning of Education psychology?
the study of how humans learn in educational settings
How can Educational psychology in part be understood?
through its relationship with other disciplines
What is important for a student in education?
Intelligence
Who focused on identifying stimuli that can influence learning?
Dunn
What do some theories believe?
that all individuals benefit from a variety of learning modalities
What can Philosophy education be when we talk about the process?
philosophy of the process of education or the philosophy of the discipline of education
What is another term used for instructors?
teachers
What is the theory behind Empirical analyses?
poor countries should grow faster than rich countries
Literature on how earnings and how it relates to schooling was greatly influenced by who?
Jacob Mincer
Which state borders Tennessee to the east?
North Carolina
What government formed in 1772 is considered the forerunner of Tennessee?
Watauga Association
Which part dominated Tennessee's politics in the late 1880s?
Democratic
What locale in Memphis is know as the place where blues was born?
Beale Street
What is Tennessee's primary non-meat agricultural product?
soybeans
Who first recorded a territorial name in the region that resembles its current name Tennessee?
Captain Juan Pardo
Which governor is given credit for the name Tennessee as it is now spelled?
James Glen
By what nickname is Tennessee officially known?
Volunteer State
What is the elevation of Tennessee's highest point?
6,643 feet
Approximately how many miles long is Tennessee's Ridge and Valley region?
55
Which Tennessee airport has the code TYS?
McGhee Tyson Airport
What is the lowland area of Tennessee between the Tennessee River and Mississippi River called?
Tennessee Bottoms
What is the most common climate across Tennessee?
humid subtropical
What is Tennessee's average high temperature in degree Celsius during the summer?
32
Which hurricane brought damaging rains to Tennessee in 1995?
Hurricane Opal
Which cities other than Knoxville have been the capital of Tennessee?
Knoxville, Kingston, and Murfreesboro
How many years ago was Tennessee first inhabited by humans?
12,000
Which European nationality first explored the Tennessee region?
Spanish
In which year did the British first settle in what would become Tennessee?
1756
What did American settlers call the Cherokee who attacked Fort Watuaga in 1776?
the Chickamauga
What was the name of the state that three North Carolina counties hoped to form in 1784?
Franklin
Which state was the first formed out of federally controlled territory?
Tennessee
Which US President oversaw the forced westward relocation of Cherokees beginning in 1838?
Martin Van Buren
Which Tennessee governor championed secession in February of 1861?
Isham Harris
Which side won more Civil War battles in Tennessee?
Union
Which county in East Tennessee was more supportive of the Confederacy than its neighbors?
Sullivan County
Which forces controlled most of Tennessee when slaves were emancipated?
Union
Who was elected Vice President of the United States in 1864?
Andrew Johnson
Who were targeted by restrictive laws passed in Southern states at the end of the 19th century?
African Americans
Which Tennessee Senator was the only Republican first-time Senator elected in 2006?
Bob Corker
What was Tennessee's estimated population in 2015?
6,600,299
What was Tennessee's most common self-reported ethnic group in 2000?
American
Which Protestant denomination has its headquarters in Nashville, TN?
National Baptist Convention
Roughly how many farms are located in Tennesee?
82,000
Where in Tennessee is the headquarters of International Paper?
Memphis
What types of income are exempt from Tennessee state income tax?
salaries and wages
In which year did Tennessee tourism first exceed 100 million visitors?
2014
Which other state sent Tennessee the most tourists in 2013?
Georgia
Which city is the endpoint of I-26?
Kingsport
Which are the two main parties in Tennessee politics?
Republican and the Democratic
Which party did most former slaves join when they were given the right to vote after the Civil War?
Republican
Which Republican presidential candidate did Tennessee support in 1920?
Warren G. Harding
In 1960, what group made up 16.45% of Tennessee's population?
African Americans
Which two Tennessee cities are most supportive of the Democratic Party?
Nashville and Memphis
Which Democratic candidate lost his own state in the 2000 general election?
Al Gore
Which 1962 US Supreme Court ruling forced states to realign their voting districts to reflect census findings? 
Baker v. Carr
Which Tennessee law enforcement agency looks for road safety violations?
Highway Patrol
Which law enforcement entity serves warrants in Tennessee?
Sheriff's Office
What method did Tennessee use for capital punishment before 1913?
hanging
What is the nickname of the University of Tennessee, Knoxville athletic teams?
Volunteers
What is post-punk?
heterogeneous type of rock music
Who coined the term post-punk?
journalists in the late 1970s
What were the things that post-punk really got into?
experimentation with production techniques
How did Nicholas Lezard describe post-punk?
fusion of art and music
Who described post-punk as "a more adventurous and arty form of punk"?
Stephen Thomas Erlewine
What is post-punk?
music that emerged from the cultural milieu of punk rock in the late 1970s
WHich independent music company was founded by Geoff Travis?
Rough Trade
When did writers for Sounds first mention "post punk"?
late 1977
When the punk movement started shrinking, what began to fill the void left by their demise?
vibrant new scenes
Who was responsible for disbanding the Sex Pistols?
Lydon
What type of producer was Martin Hannett?
post-punk
What nationality began birthing groups who expanded the vocabulary of punk music?
American
What type of worldview did New York's no wave movement tend to have?
nihilistic
How did critics respond to British post-punk groups in the 1980s?
support
What did the magazines catering to post-punk interest do to alienate their readers?
increasingly esoteric writing
What style of music was Gary Numan associated with?
synthpop
When did Manhattan's no wave scene start becoming more dance-oriented?
early 1980s
Where did some groups develop a unique style of industrial music?
Germany
What type of music did many of the post-punk bands start indulging in?
pop
How did most critical writing treat the post-punk era, until recently?
dismissed
What musical styles did post-punk help merge?
white and black musical styles
When did a post-punk revival start happening in England and the Colonies?
turn of the 21st century
Which North American version of football calls for 12 player per side on the field?
Canadian
On which date was the Canadian Junior Football League formed?
May 8, 1974
On which date was the first Canadian football game for which a written record has survived?
October 15, 1862
On which date was the first governing body for Canadian football formed?
March 24, 1873
Which Canadian football rules did the ORFU adopt in 1903?
Burnside
Who donated a championship trophy for Canadian football teams in 1909?
Albert Grey
Which one country besides Canada has hosted a professional Canadian football game?
United States
Which organization oversees amateur Canadian football?
Football Canada
How many yards wide is a Canadian football field?
65
Which team calls heads or tails in the coin flip before a CFL game?
visiting
What is the term for play stopped because the ball carrier, although not fully tackled, can no longer advance the ball?
forward progress
What minimum distance from the sideline does the official place the ball before play starts?
24 yards
How many players does each side field in an American football game?
11
What is another term for a completed play?
down
What is the term for the player that is currently handing the football when play is underway?
ball carrier
What is the usual penalty when the rules of play are violated?
loss of yardage
Where is the ball placed when a defensive penalty is committed in their own end zone?
one-yard line
Who can decline a penalty?
the non-penalized team
At which point in a game is the time the offence takes to put the ball in play measured?
last three minutes of a half
What happens to a quarter whose time expires while the ball is still live in play?
extended
What determines which team gets possession first when extending a game to break a tie?
coin toss
What countries led the two coalitions during the Seven Years' War?
two coalitions, led by Great Britain on one side and France
Who made the first strike of the Seven Years' War?
Prussia preemptively struck
With whom did the Dutch Republic align?
The Dutch Republic, long-time British ally, kept its neutrality intact
What did Britain gain in North America from the war?
Great Britain, which gained the bulk of New France in North America, Spanish Florida
What is the grandest label that historians have used to describe the  Seven Years' War?
The war has been described as the first "world war"
What was Sweden's motivation to join the war?
Sweden, fearing Prussia's expansionist tendencies, went to war in 1757 to protect its Baltic dominions,
Why did Denmark-Norway remain neutral rather than assisting its longtime ally, Britain?
The Dutch Republic, long-time British ally, kept its neutrality intact, fearing the odds against Britain and Prussia fighting the great powers of Europe
What did Great Britain gain with respect to the French trading outposts on the subcontinent of India?
superiority over the French trading outposts
Who was the traditional partner with Great Britain at the beginning of the conflict?
Great Britain and Austria, had coalesced
What Russian-Austrian agreement preceded the Seven Years War that started in 1755-56?
June 2, 1746, Austria and Russia concluded a defensive alliance that covered their own territory and Poland against attack by Prussia or the Ottoman Empire
What was the house of king George II?
Hanover
What was the objective of le Secret du roi?
goal of pursuing personal political objectives that were often at odds with France’s publicly stated policies
What two geographies did Frederick want for Prussia?
Saxony and Polish west Prussia
What country was pleased that Britain used its Hanover vote to elect Joseph as Te Holy Roman Emperor?
Austria
What was Kaunitz of Austria willing to trade for French help in capturing Silesia?
willing to trade Austrian Netherlands for France's aid
What was the response of Empress Elizabeth of Russia to the English-Prussian agreement?
Empress Elizabeth of Russia was outraged
Where did the French build Fort Duquesne?
the Forks" where the Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers meet to form the Ohio River
Which country dispatched regular troops to North America?
Britain and France
How much effort did France put into wars to defend its colonies?
It would let colonies defend themselves or would offer only minimal help
How did the British avoid having large contingents of troops in continental Europe?
allying themselves with one or more Continental powers whose interests were antithetical to those of their enemies,
What was the grand strategy of prime minister William Pitt?
a grand strategy of seizing the entire French Empire
What was the reason that the British Prime Minister thought that ware in Europe could be prevented?
the new series of alliances could prevent war from breaking out in Europe
How did Frederick II of Prussia respond to news of British and French clashes in North America?
he led Prussian troops across the border of Saxony
How did Frederick protect Silesia when he went to invade Saxony?
leaving Field Marshal Count Kurt von Schwerin in Silesia with 25,000 soldiers to guard against incursions from Moravia or Hungary
How much resistance did Frederick encounter in Saxon?
Saxon and Austrian armies were unprepared, and their forces were scattered.
How did Britain Protect Hanover?
combined force of allied German states was organised by the British to protect Hanover
Where did the Austrians retreat in May of 1757?
the fortifications of Prague
What led to the defeat of the Prussians at Memel?
five days of artillery bombardment
What were reasons that the late 1757 time frame looked bad for Prussia?
the Austrians mobilising to attack Prussian-controlled soil and a French army under Soubise approaching from the west
What Hanoverian leader lost the Battle of Hastenbeck?
Cumberland
Why did Ferdinand feel comfortable withdrawing troops from the eastern front?
Calculating that no further Russian advance was likely until 1758
What Hungarian general humiliated the Prussians?
Count András Hadik
Where did Frederick invade in 1758
Frederick launched an invasion of Moravia
What was the annual financial commitment by Britain to Frederick?
an annual subsidy of £670,000
How did Frederick respond to the Russian occupation of east Prussia?
marched to counter it.
What Austrian General surprised the Prussian at Hochkirch?
Marshal Daun
How did the Prussian army perform in 1759/
1759 saw several Prussian defeats
Where was the planned invasion of Britain by France?
near the mouth of the Loire
Identify a success of the Austrians?
the Austrians, under the command of General Laudon, captured Glatz
Identify a new country that joined the war in 1762?
Spain
How did the Prussians slow the advance of the Russians?
the Prussian army launched several successful raids against them
Britain tried to influence Prussia to take what action?
offering concessions to secure peace
In 1763 what was the status of Frederick?
his kingdom was devastated and his army severely weakened
What was the style of William Pitt's warfare?
saw purpose in this type of asymmetric enterprise
Who decided to send British troops into Germany?
Pitt now prepared to send troops into Germany;
What stopped the planned siege at St. Malo?
Worsening weather
What island did Great Britain lose in 1756?
Great Britain lost Minorca in the Mediterranean to the French in 1756
Who were the Seven Nations of Canada?
These were Native Americans of the Laurentian valley
Who assisted the French in taking forts Oswego and William Henry?
France's native allies
How did the British assure numerical superiority in taking Louisbourg?
French reinforcements were blocked by British naval victory in the Battle of Cartagena
Which country enjoyed the most success in battles in North America in 1759
All of Britain's campaigns against New France succeeded in 1759
Where did the French attack in 1762?
St. John's, Newfoundland
Name two major events of the Seven Years' War In North America.
the expulsion of the Acadians, the siege of Quebec
How were the British-French hostilities concluded?
hostilities were ended in 1763 by the Treaty of Paris
What did France retain in India?
returned all the French trading ports
Where was the Treaty of Hubertusburg signed?
at a hunting lodge between Dresden and Leipzig.
What happened to Austrian prestige due to the war?
Austria's prestige was restored in great part
What was the impact of the war on the wealth of Austria?
the Austrians went almost bankrupt at the end of war.
What did the war do for the reputation of Frederick the Great?
Frederick the Great’s personal reputation was enormously enhanced
Who was George III trying to please with the Proclamation of 1763?
American Indian tribes
What British nobleman attempted to retain European alliances following the Seven Years' War?
Lord Sandwich
Feynman proposed a integral model in particle physics, what was it?
parton model
What was the name of Feynman's 1959 talk on nanotech?
There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom
What was the date of Feynman's birth?
May 11, 1918
What personality trait did Feynman acquire from his mother?
humor
What happened to Feyman's younger brother?
died at four weeks of age
What IQ score did Feyman attain in high school?
123
Which two sections of the graduate exam did Feynman excel in?
mathematics and physics
Which weaponry research did Feynman engage in?
Manhattan Project
Feynman used this to protect his eyes during the test detonation
truck windshield
What was the Water Boiler that Feyman worked on?
nuclear reactor
Feynman quickly bored of Los Alamos because the work was all kept __?
top secret
In which book did Feynman talk about the Manhattan project?
The Pleasure of Finding Things Out
Where did Feynman receive a job after getting his PhD?
University of Wisconsin–Madison
At which college did Feyman turn down a job?
Institute for Advanced Study
The  Institute of Advanced Study and which other university colluded together to get Feynman a position?
Princeton University
Which nickname did Feynman receive?
Great Explainer
What did Feynman produce that help in understanding calculations between particles in space and time?
Feynman diagrams
What model did Murray Gell-Mann develop?
quark model
Where did  Feynman find success before moving to quantum gravity
quantum electrodynamics
Which society was Feynman elected to?
Royal Society
In which year did Feynman orate the Caltech commencement speech?
1974
What did Feynman help develop in the 1980s?
parallel computer
What theories do Feynman diagrams help explain?
string theory and M-theory
In which way did he write about his experience on the Rogers Commission?
sober narrative
Which religious sect did Feynman refuse to be part of?
Jewish
Who was Feynman's wife?
Arline Greenbaum
What analogies did Feynman use to teach Carl?
ants and Martians
Where did Feynman work at in Brazil?
Brazilian Center for Physics Research
What substance did Feynman give up later in life?
alcohol
Which book does Feynman detail was to pick up girls?
Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman
Which paper published a story about Feynman in 1992?
New York Times
Where do the Feynman Lectures on Physics pull information from?
compiled from lectures to Caltech undergraduates in 1961–64
When was Gaddafi born, and when did he die?
1942 – 20 October 2011
What book did Gaddafi publish that detailed his Third Internal Theory?
The Green Book
What does "Jamahiriya" mean?
state of the masses
Describe Gaddafi's humble upbringing.
was born in a tent near Qasr Abu Hadi, a rural area outside the town of Sirte in the deserts of western Libya
When did Libya become an independent nation?
In 1951
Describe Gaddafi's first experience with education.
a religious nature, imparted by a local Islamic teacher
Why did Gaddafi's family have to leave Sabha?
he led a demonstration protesting Syria's secession from the United Arab Republic. During this they broke windows of a local hotel accused of serving alcohol.
What subject did Gaddafi briefly study before joining the military?
History at the University of Libya in Benghazi
When Gaddafi traveled to London, did he attempt to blend into the English culture?
finding it difficult adjusting to the country's culture; asserting his Arab identity in London, he walked around Piccadilly wearing traditional Libyan robes
What changes impressed Gaddafi in Egypt?
President Gamal Abdel Nasser. Nasser argued for Arab nationalism; the rejection of Western colonialism, neo-colonialism, and Zionism
What was happening to Idris' government in the 1960s?
Idris' government was increasingly unpopular by the latter 1960s
When Gaddafi staged his coup, did he need to use a great show of violence?
They met no serious resistance, and wielded little violence against the monarchists.
How did Gaddafi announced his leadership?:
Addressing the populace by radio
How did Gaddafi staff the RCC members?
All young men from (typically rural) working and middle-class backgrounds, none had university degrees;
What did the RCC do with remnants of the monarchy?
They purged monarchists and members of Idris' Senussi clan from Libya's political world and armed forces
What was the RCC's view of political parties?
Ruling by decree, the RCC maintained the monarchy's ban on political parties,
What was Libya's main export?
crude oil
In 1979, how much did the average per capita income change for Libyans?
by 1979 the average per-capita income was at $8,170, up from $40 in 1951
What sort of identity was promoted by the RCC?
pan-Libyan
On what philosophy was the RCC's social reforms based?
sharia
What philosophy influenced the RCC?
Arab nationalism
Who did Anwar Sadat succeed?
Nasser
What nations comprised the Four Powers?
France, the United Kingdom, the United States and the Soviet Union
How many Italians lived in Libya prior to October of 1970?
12,000
What Palestinian political figure had a poor relationship with Gaddafi?
Yasser Arafat
During what decade did Libya finance militant groups?
1970s
On what date did Gaddafi declare the beginning of a "Popular Revolution"?
16 April 1973
What were the Libyan people instructed to create in conjunction with the Popular Revolution?
General People's Committees
What kind of structure did the People's Committee system use?
pyramid
Who was the founder of Three Worlds Theory?
Mao Zedong
Gaddafi's written work on Third International Theory consisted of how many volumes?
three
In what year was the Office for the Security of the Revolution founded?
1975
Whose rise to the presidency of Egypt led to the decline in relations between Egypt and Libya?
Sadat
Who was allied with Egypt during the Yom Kippur War?
Syria
What country formed a political union with Libya in 1974?
Tunisia
What was the name of the state founded in Libya on March 2, 1977?
Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
What was the GPC accused of being vis-à-vis Gaddafi?
a rubber stamp
What book did the Jamahiriya look to for legal advice?
Qur'an
In what year did Gaddafi resign from his position in the GPC?
1978
In September of 1978, what bureaucracy did Gaddafi speak out against?
public sector
On what date did the GPC separate the revolution from the government?
2 March 1979,
Where did land redistribution begin in 1979?
Jefara plain
What tribe did Gaddafi belong to?
Qaddadfa
What list did the United States add Libya to in 1979?
State Sponsors of Terrorism
How much money did Libya earn from oil in 1986?
$5.4 billion
In what years did Gaddafi visit the Soviet Union?
1981 and 1985
About how many Libyans died in Operation El Dorado Canyon?
100
In what year did the "Revolution within a Revolution" begin?
1987
What bodies were intended to be replaced by the popular militia created in 1988?
army and police
Along with Libya, Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria, who was a founding member of the Arab Maghreb Union?
Mauritania
What organization did Libya join in 1999?
Community of Sahel-Saharan States
What world leader notably visited Libya in 2002?
Jiang Zemin
In what month and year did Gaddafi make a speech promoting economic privatization?
March 2003
In what year did the so-called Arab Spring occur?
2011
Who did Gaddafi accuse the Libyan rebels of being linked to?
al-Qaeda
As a result of Resolution 1970, what body was Libya suspended from?
UN Human Rights Council
On what date did NATO kill Gaddafi's son?
30 April
What position was held by Gaddafi's brother-in-law?
head of state security
What is another term for the Amazigh?
Berber
In what geographic part of Libya is Bani Walid located?
western
Who claimed to have murdered Gaddafi?
Senad el-Sadik el-Ureybi
Who was the prime minister of the NTC?
Mahmoud Jibril
What philosophy was named for Gamal Abdel Nasser?
Nasserism
What variety of Islam was Gaddafi raised in?
Sunni
What country did Gaddafi refer to as "the embodiment of evil"?
United States
Whose efforts did Gaddafi see himself as continuing?
Nasser
What publication did Annick Cojean work for?
Le Monde
How far is the Bab al-Azizia barracks from Tripoli?
two miles
Who was Gaddafi's first father-in-law?
General Khalid
Who referred to Gaddafi as a populist?
Blundy and Lycett
What sort of virus did Gaddafi describe HIV as?
peaceful
What was the name of Gaddafi's female bodyguard?
Amazonian Guard
What diseases were minimized by Gaddafi's health care policies?
cholera and typhoid
What did Reagan call Gaddafi?
mad dog of the Middle East
Who referred to Gaddafi as a martyr?
Hugo Chávez
Who was elected president of the GNC?
Mohammed Magariaf
What is the official name of Cypus?
Republic of Cyprus
What is the date of the earliest known human activity on Cyprus?
10th millennium BC
When was Cyprus placed under British administration?
1878
The Republic of Cyprus does not have de jure sovereignty over what two British territories? 
Akrotiri and Dhekelia
During what Age did Cyprus experience two waves of Greek settlement?
late Bronze Age
In what year did James II die?
1473
In what year did Cyprus face a full-scale Ottoman assault?
1570
What system did the Ottomans abolish in favor of the millet system?
feudal system
How many Muslims made up the island's population in 1777-78?
47,000
What year did the Greek war of independence break out?
1821
The island of Cyprus serves as a key military base to what western country?
Britain
The Megali Idea was actively pursued by whom?
Cypriot Orthodox Church
Who viewed themselves as a distinct ethnic group of the island of Cyprus?
Turkish Cypriots
In what year did the Church of Cyprus organize a referendum?
1950
Which countries were part of the Zurich and London Agreement?
United Kingdom, Greece and Turkey
National militants had the support of what two countries?
Greece and Turkey
In December of what year did intercommunal violence erupt?
1963
Who tried to invade Cyprus in 1964?
Turkey
What date was a coup d'etat carried out in Cyprus?
15 July 1974
What did the Turkish troops capture first on the island?
Kyrenia
How much of the island was controlled by Turks after international pressure led to a ceasefire?
37%
How many settlers from Turkey were living in the north?
150,000
In what year did the last major effort to settle the Cyprus dispute take place?
2004
What two mountains ranges are located on the island of Cyprus?
Troodos Mountains and the smaller Kyrenia Range
In Cyprus, what is the average temperature during the day?
24 °C (75 °F)
Which cities has one of the warmest winters in the European Union?
Limassol
When does the middle of summer occur on Cyprus?
July and August
When did Cyprus receive enough rainfall to fill up their water reserves?
Between 2001 and 2004
What do the people of Cyprus rely on for domestic and agricultural supply of water?
Dams
What types of branches did the 1960 Constitution provide?
legislative and judicial branches
Which part of Cyprus was occupied by the Turkish army?
northern third of the island
How many members are currently in the House of Representatives?
59 members
Why does the United Nations question the Human rights status of Cyprus?
ongoing division of Cyprus continues to affect human rights throughout the island
How much was Turkey ordered to pay in compensation to Cyprus?
over $100m
What incident was the most deadly military accident that occurred on Cyprus?
Evangelos Florakis Naval Base explosion
What affected the Cypriot economy in 2012?
Eurozone financial and banking crisis
What did the March 2013 agreement decide?
split the country's second largest bank
What is the per capita GDP of Cyprus given by the IMF?
$30,769
What resource has been discovered offshore in recent years?
natural gas
What are the three modes of transport available on Cyprus?
road, sea and air
What was the number of Greek Cypriots on Cyprus in 1973?
482,000
How many people were living in Northern Cyprus according to the 2006 census?
256,644
What religion do most Greek Cypriots identify with?
Greek Orthodox
How many official languages does Cyprus have?
two
What do Cypriot universities ignore when looking at admission?
high school grades
Where do most Cypriots receiver higher education?
Greek, British, Turkish, other European and North American universities
Which foods do Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots have in common?
souvla and halloumi
Who was the first important Cyprus painter of modern times?
Vassilis Vryonides
What type of art is being promoted by art institutions in Cyprus?
conceptual art
Traditional Cyprus music has what other types of genres in common?
Greek, Turkish, and Arabic
What influences popular music in Cyprus?
Greek Laïka scene
What type of artistic form flourished at the time of the Middle Ages?
Epic poetry
Who are some famous Cypriot folk poets?
Dimitris Lipertis, Vasilis Michaelides and Pavlos Liasides
Where was William Shakespeare's Othello set?
Cyprus
What is the name of a local television company in Cyprus?
Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation
What is the amount in Euros of money set aside for the Cinema Advisory Committee?
850,000 Euros
What are some famous seafood and fish dishes?
squid, octopus, red mullet, and sea bass
Can you name some common vegetables used in Cyprus?
courgettes, green peppers, okra, green beans
Which Cypriot tennis player ranked 8th in the world?
Marcos Baghdatis
What issue did Spielberg address in his movie Schindler's List?
the Holocaust
Where was Steven Spielberg born?
Cincinnati, Ohio
How much money has all of Steven Spielberg's movies grossed worldwide?
exceeds $9 billion
When did Steven Spielberg have trouble dealing with being an Orthodox Jew?
As a child
What was Spielberg's first indepenent film?
Firelight
What job was SPielberg offered when he was a student?
Universal Studios
Who starred in the TV show segment "Eyes"
Joan Crawford
How many TV films did Universal sign Spielbergo to direct?
four
What film did Richard D. Zanuck and David Brown offer Steven Spielberg to direct?
Jaws
What films did Spielberg turn down in the 70s?
Jaws 2, King Kong and Superman
When did Spielberg re-release Close Encounters?
1980
Who was responsible for Star Wars?
George Lucas
What rating did 'Temple of Doom' receive?
PG
Who wrote 'The Color Purple'?
Alice Walker
Until the 1980s, when had an American film last been shot in Shanghai?
the 1930s
When did the 3rd Indiana Jones film come out?
1989
Whose life was 'Schindler's List' based on?
Oskar Schindler
Who did Tom Hanks play in 'Saving Private Ryan'?
Capt. Miller
What movie did Spielberg collaborate with Cruise for?
Minority Report
Which studios produced Spielberg's 'War of the Worlds'?
Paramount and DreamWorks
What was 'Munich' about?
the 1972 Munich Massacre of Israeli athletes at the Olympic Games
When did Spielberg announce what would become 'Interstellar'?
June 2006
What was the first non-Pixar movie to win the Best Animated Feature Film award?
The Adventures of Tintin: The Secret of the Unicorn
Where was 'War Horse' filmed?
England
Who starred in 'Lincoln' as Abraham Lincoln?
Daniel Day-Lewis
When was 'Bridge of Spies' released?
October 16, 2015
Which Warner Bros. cartoons did Spielberg produce?
Tiny Toon Adventures, Animaniacs, Pinky and the Brain, Toonsylvania, and Freakazoid!
When was 'Men In Black' released?
1997
When did 'Into the West' air?
2005
Which channel aired 'Falling Skies'?
TNT
Who wrote the script for 'Someone's in the Kitchen'?
Paul Rugg
Who wrote 'The BFG'?
Roald Dahl
Who wrote 'The Kidnapping of Edgardo Mortara'?
David Kertzer
Who was going to star in 'Robopocalypse'?
Anne Hathaway and Chris Hemsworth
What theme is common to Spielberg's films?
ordinary characters searching for or coming in contact with extraordinary beings or finding themselves in extraordinary circumstances
Which Spielberg films are examples of a childlike sense of wonder?
Close Encounters of the Third Kind, E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial, Hook, A.I. Artificial Intelligence and The BFG
What was Indy's father's career?
professor of medieval literature
Which Spielberg films has Dreyfuss been in?
Jaws, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, and Always
Which film did Kathleen Kennedy first work with Spielberg on?
E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial
What are the only Spielberg films since Sugarland Express to not have music by John Williams?
Bridge of Spies, The Color Purple and Twilight Zone: The Movie
Who did Spielberg begin dating in 1976?
Amy Irving
When did Spielberg and Irving initially break up?
1979
In which Olympics was Spielberg a flagbearer?
2002 Winter Olympic Games
When was Spielberg named the 'most influential celebrity in America'?
2014
When was Citizen Kane released?
1941
What was the first video game Spielberg played?
Pong
What Boy Scout merit badge did Spielberg help develop?
cinematography
What award did Spielberg receive on Jul 15, 2006?
Gold Hugo Lifetime Achievement Award
When was Spielberg added to the Science Fiction Hall of Fame?
2005
For which industry were elevators first used?
coal mines
Who invented the hydraulic crane in 1846?
Sir William Armstrong
What Neapolitan architect created the "Flying Chair" elevator?
Gaetano Genovese
Who created the safety elevator in 1852?
Elisha Otis
Which was built first, the first elevator shaft or the first elevator?
first elevator shaft
Who built the first electric elevator?
Werner von Siemens
What is another name for an elevator shaft?
hoistway
How do most elevator doors work?
have two panels that meet in the middle, and slide open laterally
Throughout history, what type of engines were used for elevator machines?
AC motors
In a gearless traction engine, what is the drive sheave attached to?
directly attached to the end of the motor
What reduces the amount of force needed to propel the cab?
cables are attached to a hitch plate on top of the cab
"Compensation" is the name of the system used for what type of elevators?
Elevators with more than 30 m (98 ft) of travel
What type of installations are hydraulic elevators best suited for?
low rise, low traffic installations
What defines a climbing elevator?
a self-ascending elevator with its own propulsion
What does this type of elevator use to propel the cage?
a vacuum on top of the cab and a valve on the top of the "shaft"
Until the mid 1900s most elevators lacked what?
automatic positioning of the floor on which the cab would stop
Where is the elevator motor found?
at the top of the shaft or beside the bottom of the shaft
What function does a "destination operating panel" feature?
a passenger registers their floor calls before entering the car
What is one example of a limitation on the system? 
the system is subject to gaming
What is one way to implement destination control?
every user gets an RFID card to identify himself
What is another name for up-peak mode?
moderate incoming traffic
How is the special sercice mode enabled?
by a key switch either inside the elevator itself or on a centralized control panel in the lobby
Who is authorized to provide inspection and/or maintenance of the elevator?
qualified elevator mechanics
What initiates Phase one mode?
a corresponding smoke sensor or heat sensor in the building
How is the Phase-two mode enabled?
Phase-two mode can only be activated by a key switch located inside the elevator on the centralized control panel
Upon arriving at the desinated floor, what does the elevator do?
it will park with its doors open and the car buttons will be disabled to prevent a passenger from taking control of the elevator
What sequence of events happens when the power shuts off in a traction elevator and the elevators all stop?
One by one, each car in the group will return to the lobby floor, open its doors and shut down
How do hydraulic elevators work in emergencies?
emergency power will lower the elevators to the lowest landing and open the doors to allow passengers to exit
What types of elevator hold the highest safety record?
cable-borne elevators
Underground electrolytic malfunctions in hydraulic elevators can result in the destruction of what? 
the cylinder and bulkhead
What part of the mine shaft requires routine testing?
elevator rails
What dictates passenger elevator capacities?
the available floor space
Passenger elevators, used in city transport share similarities to what other ascending and descending vehicles counterbalancing each other?    
funiculars
What is another name for a freight elevator?
goods lift
How are stage lifts powered?
by hydraulics
What type of elevators are generally less costly than full commercial elevators?
residential
What types of elevators occassionaly do not use a traditional elevator shaft, machine room or hoistway?
residential
What are small freight elevators used for things such as food, called?
Dumbwaiters
What do the partians do on the conveyor?
ensure that the material moves forward
The invention of elevators brought with it questions of social etiquette and formalities, generally referred to as what?
social protocols
Modern elevator position or floor indicaters often use what type of bulbs?
LED
What is the main function of direction lanterns?
to help people decide whether or not to get on the elevator
New technologies aim to provide a better elevator experience to passengers who suffer from what?
claustrophobia, anthropophobia or social anxiety
In what neighboring countries are passenger elevators required to adhere to Standard A17.1?
most US and Canadian jurisdictions
Whose name is on the permit required for operation of an elevator? 
the building owner
What country had the second most elevators installed?
United States
What type of elevators are used in the Taipei 101 office tower?
Double deck elevators
How fast do the observation deck elevators travel?
1,010 metres per minute (61 km/h) in 16 seconds
What is the name of the elevator attraction at the Disney World parks across the world?
The Twilight Zone Tower of Terror
How are passenger cabs separated from the lift?
mechanically
What are the 67th, 69th, and 70th floors of the GE Building at Rockerfeller Center nicknamed?
"Top of the Rock"
 The Haunted Mansion at Disneyland in California and the one in Paris, France sharewhat attribute?
takes place on an elevator
What planet is Neptune's near-twin? 
Uranus
How was Neptune found? 
mathematical prediction
Which planet is compositionally similar to Neptune? 
Uranus
What weather did Voyager 2 observe on Neptune? 
Great Dark Spot
Who drew Neptune after observing it with a telescope? 
Galileo
What year did Alexis Bouvard publish relevant astronomical tables? 
1821
Who was Henrich d'Arrest? 
student at the observatory
What two countries argued over credit for the discovery of Neptune? 
French and the British
Who claimed the right to name Neptune? 
Le Verrier
What is the Chinese, Japanese, and Korean translations for Neptune? 
sea king star
What was Neptune before Pluto was discovered? 
farthest known planet
What is Neptune's mass? 
1.0243×1026 kg
What is Neptune's mantle rich in? 
water, ammonia and methane
What is Neptune's atmosphere made of? 
80% hydrogen and 19% helium
What is Neptune's clouds competition variants dependent on? 
altitude
On Neptune, which clouds cast shadows on the cloud deck below it? 
High-altitude clouds
What is Neptune's temperature in the thermosphere? 
750 K
What is the rotational axis of Neptune's magnetic field? 
47°
What is Neptune's dipole magnetic moment? 
2.2 × 1017 T·m3
What system, like Saturn, does Neptune have? 
planetary ring system
What dynamic weather does Neptune have?
storm
How much warmer is Neptune's south pole to the rest of it's atmosphere? 
10 K
What white cloud group on Neptune is farther south than the dark great spot?
The Scooter
Where are Neptune's dark spots thought to occur? 
in the troposphere
Why might Neptune have more varied weather than Uranus?
higher internal heating
When did Neptune complete it's first barycentric orbit since it's discovery?
11 July 2011
What is the region behind Neptune called? 
Kuiper belt
What is the fraction of the most heavily populated resonance in the Kuiper belt? 
2:3 resonance
What is the resonance of Neptune trojans?
1:1
What could have blasted Neptune and Uranus's atmosphere with radiation, aiding in creation? 
nearby massive OB star
If Neptune formed closer to the sun, what is the matter density?
higher
How many moons does Neptune have?
14
What discovered six moons of Neptune in 1989?
Voyager 2
What is Neptune's angular diameter range?
2.2 to 2.4 arcseconds
What is the only spacecraft to visit Neptune?
Voyager 2
When is the next hypothetical mission to Neptune?
late 2020s
What is of the factors the capital cost of electrification system depends on?
maintenance
What is used to haul passengers cars?
electric locomotives
What is the principal alternative to electric railways?
diesel engine
What is a safety hazard to track workers?
voltages on contact wires
What is speed limit for railways?
variable speeds
Why do motors have little space for insulation?
low voltage ratings
What type of electric power garantees lesser loss?
DC
What is most common voltage for DC supply?
1,500 V
What voltage is being used in railway system of South Africa and Chile?
3 kV DC
What type is mostly used third rail or overhead wires?
overhead wires
Why DC system can effect the speed of trains?
low voltages
What is the other name for the street trams?
streetcars
What year the "second generation" of tram system began to operate in France?
2003
What type of system does London Underground use?
four-rail system
What danger can return currents cause?
electrolytic damage
Why some sections of Bakerloo and District lines were rewired to three-rail system?
to simplify rolling stock use
Why some lines of Paris Metro have to operate on a four-rail system?
rubber tyres
How can different range of voltages be supplied for AC locomotives?
multiple taps on the transformer
How can DC motor turn universal?
if fitted with laminated pole pieces
How did non-standard gauge trains start to operate with high-voltage AC?
adopting the already proven RhB system.
What frequency was typically used on US Amtrak?
25 Hz
When was overhead wires system being used for the first time in UK?
1 December 1909
What countries  used three-phase AC system in the the beginning of 20th century?
Italy, Switzerland and the United States
What country has first tried to use single-phase AC?
Hungary
What was the main requirement for electric feeder stations?
line fed from different feeder stations must be kept strictly isolated
What nowdays electrification systems can use?
DC motors which directly use the DC or they may be 3-phase AC motors
What two systems were compare in the Soviet Union in 1970?
3 kV DC and 25 kV AC (50 Hz
What can be seen in the newly electrified lines?
"sparks effect"
What is a major factor whn it comes to electrification?
Network effects
What is the other issue that comes to sight when using electrification system?
connections between different electrical services
Which of two can be more efficiently electricified?
Central station
Can renewable source of electricity be used in mobile power plants?
unsuitable
What type of trains became more energy-efficient in the former Soviet Union?
electric
What caused the energy efficiency to go up?
energy-intensity dropping
How many people speak Spanish as a first or second language in the United States?
There are 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or second language in the United States,
How old is the Spanish language in the United States?
The Spanish language has been present in what is now the United States since the 16th and 17th centuries
When did the Spanish arrive to America?
Spanish arrived in the territory of the modern United States with Ponce de León in 1513.
Was Texas a part of Mexico?
In 1821, after Mexico's War of Independence from Spain, Texas was part of the United Mexican States as the state of Coahuila y Tejas
What states made up of Alta California
California, Nevada, Arizona, Utah, western Colorado and southwestern Wyoming became part of the Mexican territory of Alta California
Why isn't the southwest Spanish speaking?
Through the force of sheer numbers, the English-speaking American settlers entering the Southwest established their language, culture, and law
Did America try to make Puerto Rico an English speaking territory?
U.S. federal government strenuously tried to force Puerto Ricans to adopt English
How many Puerto Ricans are there?
At over 5 million, Puerto Ricans are easily the 2nd largest Hispanic group. Of all major Hispanic groups
Why did Cubans come to the United States?
Immigration to the United States of Spanish-speaking Cubans began because of Cuba's political instability
What other Spanish Speaking people come to America?
Spanish-speaking Nicaraguans
Why did Salvadorans come to America?
The exodus of Salvadorans was a result of both economic and political problems.
Why did Central Americans flee to the U.S.?
civil wars engulfed several Central American countries in the 1980s
When did the Venezuelans emigrate to the united states?
Until the 20th century, there was no clear record of the number of Venezuelans who emigrated to the United States.
How did Chavez affect the Venezuelans?
In the 2000s, more Venezuelans opposing the economic and political policies of president Hugo Chávez migrated to the United States
Is there such a thing as bilingual state?
Some states, such as New Mexico, provide bilingual legislated notices and official documents
Has some states like Arizona embraced their Mexican history?
The state (like its southwestern neighbors) has had close linguistic and cultural ties with Mexico
Does New Mexico have an official language?
the state has no official language.
Why is New Mexico always an after thought in American -Spanish speaking society?
Because of its relative isolation from other Spanish-speaking areas over most of its 400-year existence
What is Texas official language?
In Texas, English is the state's de facto official language
What language, other than English, is spoken in the U.S.?
Spanish is currently the most widely taught non-English language
What political speaches are delivered in English and Spanish?
The State of the Union Addresses and other presidential speeches are translated to Spanish
Are there studies on Hispanic-American language?
Calvin Veltman undertook, for the National Center for Education Statistics and for the Hispanic Policy Development Project
What is the oldest city in South Carolina?
Charleston
What year was Charleston founded?
1670
How large is Charleston, South Carolina?
127.5 square miles (330.2 km2)
What season is the wettest in Charleston?
Summer
What is hottest temperature recorded with Charleston's city limits?
104 °F
How many people lived in the Charleston=North Charleston Urban Area in 2010?
548,404
What era brought counties to South Carolina?
Reconstruction Era
What year was Charles Town founded?
1670
Where did Charleston's original settlers come from?
Bermuda
What religious group was not allowed to settle in South Carolina?
Catholics
Which country along with France contested England's claim to the Charleston region?
Spain
What author paid for the simple bench at Sullivan's Island?
Toni Morrison
African slaves had great knowledge of the cultivation of what product?
rice
What lucrative trade contributed greatly to Charles Town's growth?
slave trade
What other Native American nation supplied Charles Town with deer hides other than the Cherokee nation?
Creek nations
What is the oldest college in South Carolina?
College of Charles Towne
Which general tried to seize Charles Town during the American Revolution?
General Sir Henry Clinton
What was the greatest American defeat of the American Revolution?
Siege of Charles Towne
What city became the state capital of South Carolina?
Columbia
How many free people of color lived in Charleston in 1860?
3,785
What was planned by Denmark Vesey?
slave revolt
Black left which religious denomination is great numbers after slavery?
Southern Baptist Church
What association founded the Avery Normal Institute?
the American Missionary Association
What percentage of Charleston's population was black in 1875?
57%
What were white Democratic paramilitary groups in Charleston known as?
the Red Shirts
What nearly destroyed Charleston in 1886?
an earthquake
Which party dominated South Carolina's state legislature?
Democrat
On what day were nine people killed in the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church?
June 17, 2015
What season is Spoleto Festival USA held?
spring
What is Charleston's oldest community theater group?
the Footlight Players
"Charleston's Provincialisms" was published in what year?
1887
How many days does the Spoleto Festival USA run each year?
17
Who wrote the "Charleston"?
Chris Smith
What year was the Jenkins Orphanage created?
1891
What other president did the Jenkins Orphanage play for other than Taft?
Theodore Roosevelt
How many companies are there in the City of Charleston Fire Department?
19
What is the largest police department of South Carolina?
The City of Charleston Police Department
What is the state's first school of medicine?
Medical University of South Carolina Medical Center
What airport provides service to the City to Charleston?
Charleston International Airport
What area in Charleston is considered the 'industrial area'?
the city's Neck area
What year did the Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge open?
2005
Some of the oldest private schools in Charleston date back how long?
150 years
What is the nation's 13th-oldest university?
College of Charleston
What is the name of Charleston's sister city?
Spoleto
What year was the Polaris Missile Facility Atlantic station closed?
1996
What year did South Carolina pass a law allowing them to repeal Federal Law?
1832
What industry depended on the port of Charleston?
The slave trade
What percentage of those elected from 1868 to 1876 were Freemen?
26%
Red is opposite what color of the spectrum?
violet
From where does the color red in blood come from?
hemoglobin
During what period did people use Kermes vermilio to make red dye?
Neolithic Period
In which book of the Bible did God reference gifts of Blue Purple and Scarlet?
the Book of Exodus
When did Egyptians start to make red pigment?
4000 BC
Which color was said to be the Emperor's color in ancient Rome?
Tyrian purple
What pigment was used to paint villas in ancient Rome?
vermilion
Which European emperor painted their palace red?
Emperor Charlemagne
What status did the wearing of red in medieval times represent?
wealth
How many elements did the Chinese philosophers think the world was made of?
five
During what years did the Song dynasty occur?
906–1279
Who painted their mansions red during the Song and Tang dynasties?
nobles
What plant was used to make the most used red dye in Venice?
Rubia
Which conquistador from Spain conquered the Aztec Empire?
Hernán Cortés
What did Renaissance painters call the pigment made from cochineal?
carmine
During which revolution was red a symbol of liberty?
French Revolution
What was Turkey red called in France?
rouge d'Adrinople
In which century did color theory begin to be systematically studied?
19th
During which century did Matisse work?
20th
To whom did Rothko donate Passion of Christ murals?
Harvard University
What was red ochre composed of?
minerals
Which colors are part of the RGB model?
red, green and blue
Over what numerical scale is color measured on a computer screen?
zero to 255,
What type of scattering is responsible for the shift in the color of sunlight?
Rayleigh
When was the first ruby laser invented?
1960
At which period of the year are phosphates high?
the summer growing season
What pigment accounts for the majority of color in red hair?
pheomelanin
In alpha male mandrills what party of the body is most red according to their rank?
the face
What trait do people most commonly link red with?
courage
When was Saint Valentine martyred?
296 AD
What color gowns are generally worn by recent Doctors of Philosophy at Oxford?
Scarlet
What did a red flag signal in the Middle Ages?
defenders of a town or castle would fight to defend it
In what city did the standardization of red as a color of stop lights occur?
Vienna
In what way is red used in contemporary fashion?
to attract the eyes of the viewer to the person
How many heads did the scarlet beast which a woman sat on have?
seven heads
Which cardinal direction is signified by red in China?
south
What central African warriors are said to cover themselves in red for celebrations?
Ndembu warriors
What team did the Cincinnati Red Stockings become?
the Atlanta Braves
What color jersey does Bayern Munich wear?
red
In Christian nations what does the color red often become associated with?
Christ's blood
When did the Slavic solidarity movement choose red blue and white as their colors?
the late nineteenth century
During what time period did the German Empire use the colors red white and black?
1870 to 1918
After the demise of what was the red flag linked to the French Revolution?
Bastille
When was the Communist Manifesto first created?
February 1848
Who was defeated in the Franco-Prussian war?
the French Army
How many days did the recount after the 2000 US election last for?
39
In what year was the Community Party of China created?
1920
What did the biggest star on the flag of China in 1949 represent?
the Communist Party
What was the beginning date of the aerial raids on Great Britain?
7 September 1940
How many nights did the Luftwaffe bomb London?
57 consecutive nights
What was the name of the Luftwaffe plan to invade Britain?
Operation Sea Lion
In the 1920's and 30's to theorist thought wars could be won by air forces what were their names?
Giulio Douhet and Billy Mitchell
Who believe air power alone would not be decisive?
Luftwaffe
Who said the Luftwaffe General Staff should be taught grand strategy?
Wever
How did Wever die?
air crash
What year was the beginning of enemy bombing first promoted by Hitler?
1930s
How did Hitler threaten small nations into accepting German rule?
air bombardment
Who did Hitler have a conflict over running the air force?
Hermann Göring
What was the major cause of the separation between the Luftwaffe and the other military structure?
communications gap
Which two countries declared war on Germany on September 3 1939?
UK and France
Which tactics were the Luftwaffe excepted to use against Britain? 
air operations
Why did the Luftwaffe fail to locate their targets?
poor intelligence
What does OKL stand for?
Oberkommando der Luftwaffe
The Luftwaffe air fleets were taking what kind of losses?
punishing
Which British city did the Luftwaffe focus its bombing on?
London
What year did the OKL become aware that Britain would be a possible target?
early 1938
Coupled with British quick reactions what cause operational capacity hard to achieve?
limitations in weapons technology
How many casualties did the British government estimate for every ton of bombs dropped?
50
What was the biggest fear aerial attacks would cause besides death and wounded?
psychological trauma
The government planned to evacuate 1.4 million from which city?
London
What civil-defense efforts were left to local authorities to handle?
shelters
What kind of sentiment did the government fear would developed in large group shelters? 
anti-war
Why did the government refuse to allow the London Underground stations to be used as shelters?
interfere with commuter and troop travel
What was the largest number to use Underground shelters in September  27, 1940?
177,000
What year did the government start to build new deep shelters?
1940
What witness wrote that these people are staunch to the bone and won't quit?
American
Anne Freud and Edward Glover said London civilians did not suffer from what?
widespread shell shock
What drink was never rationed?
beer
What is ARP?
Air Raid Precautions
What group did Samuel Hoare set up in 1938?
Women's Voluntary Services for Civil Defence
Who was the Air Officer Commanding Fighter Command after 1940?
Hugh Dowding
Who was reluctant to act quickly when urgent changes need to be made?
Dowding
Who was summoned to the Air Ministry conference on October 17, 1940?
Dowding
People over the age of 35 reacted to the bombings with what?
great trepidation
What did the RAF put most of their resources into?
daylight fighter defences
What did the British offence become know as?
cult of the offensive
What did the Lorenz beam allow aircraft to do?
land at night or in bad weather
While Knickebein was used my most German crews who used the X-Gerat system?
specially trained pathfinder crews
Which system was the most complex of the three?
Y-Gerät
The beam was traced to what town?
Derby
The German beacons used what frequency band?
medium
Anti-aircraft defenses became better after what?
Blitz was over
Fake fires were used as what kind of technique?
diversionary
The bombing of the Thames Estuary cause how many civilian casualties?
1,600
What was the name of the airfield where heavy raids took place?
Farnborough
On September 15 the Luftwaffe made daylight raids on what target in London?
Thames Estuary
Who thought the Luftwaffe could win?
Göring
On October 14 how many German bombers attacked?
380
How much of the short tons of bombs were dropped during the day?
10 percent
What was the Luftwaffe's second primary policy?
to interfere with production in the vast industrial arms factories of the West Midlands
In September how many railway hits were there in Great Britain?
no less than 667
What was the name of the American observer?
Ingersoll
British night air defenses were effective to what height?
12,000 ft (3,700 m)
Who reorganised London's defences?
General Pile
The bombers used what out of desperation?
airborne search lights
Who replaced Dowding on November 25?
Sholto Douglas
What was critical in the night battles over Britain?
radar
The Luftwaffe's change in strategy targeted what primarily?
the West Midlands
How many bombers hit Birmingham?
369
On what day was London itself attacked?
the evening of 29 December
Why were port cities targeted by the Luftwaffe?
to try to disrupt trade and sea communications
What was the primary goal of the German air doctrine?
target civilian morale
What was the group that used incendiaries and high explosives to mark targets?
Beleuchtergruppe
Decision changes at organizational levels led to what type of attacks?
unrestricted area attack or Terrorangriff (Terror Attack)
What did Erich Raeder believe the Luftwaffe needed to do?
support the German submarine force
What was Hitler's Directive 23?
Directions for operations against the British War Economy
What was the concession Goring made with the strategic bombing against Britain?
Directive 23
What was the first consideration for the OKL to support Directive 23?
difficulty in estimating the impact of bombing upon war production
What was inflicting heavy losses and increasing the air war designed to do?
create the impression an amphibious assault on Britain was planned for 1941
How many sorties were flown in March 1941?
4,000
What was focused in March?
western ports
How many sorties a night were crews asked to fly?
two or three sorties
What did the British fear most?
intensification of submarine and air attack
How many houses were spared damage in Glasgow?
seven
What were two large ports on the English east coast in the North?
Newcastle-upon-Tyne and Sunderland
When was the last major attack London saw?
10/11 May 1941
How was the British night fighter operations faring?
were proving highly successful.
What performed better during night fighting?
The Boulton Paul Defiant
What was the max speed of a Beaufighter?
320 mph (510 km/h)
What was the most losses the Luftwaffe suffered on any mission?
one- to two-percent losses
The Luftwaffe used how many short tons of bombs during the Blitz?
45,000 short tons
How could have more been achieved in the air offensive?
had the OKL exploited their enemy's weak spot
What helped increase the Bomber Command's offensives?
the German experience
What was the critical lesson Air Staff ignored?
Targeting German morale, as Bomber Command would do, was no more successful.
Without what could morale collapse occur according to Arthur Harris?
without the destruction of the German economy.
What view became popular of the British people in WWII?
people locked in national solidarity.
What was the communist party agitated over?
the need for bomb-proof shelters.
The success of the Communists helped what political group?
British Union of Fascists (BUF)
What was another reason for populations moving?
industry dispersal may have been a factor
What are the audiobooks with wartime recordings?
The Blitz, The Home Front and British War Broadcasting
Which president signed the Act into law?
Richard Nixon
What was the historical range of the whooping crane?
central Canada South to Mexico, and from Utah to the Atlantic coast
What was the first federal law that regulated wildlife commerce?
Lacey Act of 1900
What did the Endangered Species Act authorize the Secretary of the Interior to do?
list endangered domestic fish and wildlife
What is the nickname given to the first listing of endangered species?
"Class of '67"
When was the Endangered Species Conservation Act passed?
December, 1969
Who led the team of lawyers and scientists who crafted the Endangered Species Act of 1973?
Dr. Russell E. Train
How many different ways can a species be added to the endangered list?
two ways
What word was added to the Endangered Species Act in 1982?
"solely"
How is public notice given regarding a listing?
through legal notices in newspapers, and communicated to state and county agencies within the species' area
What section of the Endangered Species Act establishes critical habitat regulations?
Section 4
How are non-federal government activities that might impact critical habitat often subject to the Endangered Species Act?
require a federal permit
What is the time limit for designating a species critical habitat after the species has been added to the endangered list?
within one year
What four topics are required in an Endangered Species Recovery Plan?
goals, tasks required, likely costs, and estimated timeline to recover endangered species
What is the primary consideration for determining if projects may be carried out in areas with endangered species?
whether a listed species will be harmed by the action and, if so, how the harm can be minimized
Who reviews exemption considerations before the Endangered Species committee?
the Forest Service, and either the FWS or the NMFS
How many times has the exemption process been used, as of 2009?
six
Who owns the majority of critical habitat?
non-federal property, owned by citizens, states, local governments, tribal governments and private organizations
An approved HCP results in what being issued for the species?
an Incidental Take Permit (ITP)
What location held the first HCP?
San Bruno Mountain, California
What 1981 court decision added to the power of HCPs and ITPs for conservation?
Palila v. Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources
What is the name of the rule that protects the landowner if their conservation efforts fall short?
The "No Surprises" rule
What two groups are bound by a "Safe Harbor" agreement?
the private landowner and FWS
How do Candidate Conservation Agreements differ from Safe Harbor agreements?
Candidate Conservation Agreements With Assurances(CCA) are meant to protect unlisted species
What animal species was delisted in August 2008?
the Virginia northern flying squirrel
As of September 2012, how many species had been delisted due to recovery?
twenty-eight
How did a land owner impact the protected red-cockaded woodpecker species?
increased harvesting and shortened the age at which he harvests his trees to ensure that they do not become old enough to become suitable habitat
What is one particular industry that exploits Endangered Species Act loopholes?
exotic pet trade
The Center for Public Integrity found that 151 of what primate were moved from the New England Primate Research Center into exotic pet trade?
cotton-top tamarin
Section 6 of the Endangered Species Act provided funding for what purpose?
development of programs for management of threatened and endangered species by state wildlife agencies
Is the public given incentive to report Endangered Species Act violations?
A reward will be paid to any person who furnishes information which leads to an arrest, conviction, or revocation of a license
The word Vacuum stems from what Latin adjective?
vacuus
The Vacuum state is considered what?
the ground state of matter.
What did Aristotle believe about a void?
no void could occur naturally,
In what century did believes start to move away from Aristotle's idea regarding a void?
14th century
What does Rapid decompression do to the lungs?
rupture of the delicate alveoli
What did Descartes believe about vacuums in nature?
that a vacuum does not occur in nature
An infinite sea of particles with negative energy  was a model propesed by whom?
Paul Dirac
what is a perfect example of a filled vacuum showing a curvature?
The black hole
Where do most satellites operate?
low Earth orbit
Al-Farabi concluded a perfect vacuum was incoherent using what?
handheld plungers in water.
Who required no restrictions regarding God's power?
Bishop Etienne Tempier
What was the vacuum created by the mercury displacement pump?
partial vacuum of about 10 Pa (0.1 Torr).
What was originally believed the heavens were filled with?
aether
What indicated the quality of a vacuum?
amount of matter remaining in the system
Absolute pressure  being equal to current atmospheric pressure means what?
"Below atmospheric"
Why is mercury the better option for liquid used in a Hydrostatic gauge?
its high density and low vapour pressure
The fact that gases ability to conduct heat decreases with pressure is used by what form of measurement?
Thermal conductivity gauges
What affects the number of ions in a gauge?
the pressure in the gauge
density of oxygen like that of sea-level atmosphere is needed to do what?
sustain life at pressures much lower than atmospheric,
When will a person or animal lose consciousness  when exposed to a vacuum?
after a few seconds
What can boil away in extreme vaccum exposure?
Some oils and greases
The state with the lowest possible energy in quantum mechanics defines what ?
vacuum
When are electric and magnetic fields with zero average values, but their variances are not at zero?
In QED vacuum
`Why does thermosphere past the Karman line vary so greatly?
due to space weather
What was the object to use first in widespread manner process of vacuum?
incandescent light bulb
What provides power assistance for auto brakes?
vacuum servo
what is evaporation and sublimation in a vacuum?
outgassing
Repeatedly closing off a compartment of a vacuum allows what?
continue evacuating a chamber indefinitely without requiring infinite growth
What pump can capture gases in a solid or absorbed state?
Entrapment pumps
When multiple pumps are connected in series to produce higher vacuum it is called what?
stages
What period followed the Han dynasty?
Three Kingdoms
When did the Qing dynasty fall?
AD 1911
In what year did the central government issue coins?
119 BC
Which confederation defeated the Han in 200 BC?
The Xiongnu
Which religious societies instigated the Yellow Turban Rebellion?
Daoist
With what action did the Qin bring together the Chinese Warring States?
conquest
How many commanderies were in the western third of the empire?
thirteen
Who was the chieftain of the Xiongnu?
Modu Chanyu
The heqin agreement was reaffirmed by a court conference in what year?
135 BC
Who made up a majority of the people on the frontier?
soldiers
What type of Roman item was traded on the Silk Road network?
glasswares
Which group did Han forces fight in the Tarm Basin?
the Xiongnu
Who made up the bulk of the administrators of the new government monopolies?
former merchants
Who tried to outlaw slavery?
Wang Mang
Where did the capital move to after the reign of Guangwu?
Luoyang
On what date did the Eastern Han dynasty begin?
5 August 25
Which Basin did the Han lose authority of?
Tarim
Which ruler requested a marriage alliance with the Han in AD 90?
Vima Kadphises
Who translated written works into Chinese?
Buddhist monks
Who was prevented from leaving their house?
Empress Dowager Dou
Who had forced a large number of Empress Dowager Deng's clan members to kill themselves?
Emperor An
On what charge was Li Ying jailed for?
treason
Who arrested Chen Fan in a failed plot?
the eunuchs
In what year did the Partisan Prohibitions end?
184 AD
Who was assassinated on September 22, 189 AD?
He Jin
How was Luoyang destroyed?
burned
Who was defeated at the Battle of Red Cliffs in 208 AD?
Cao
During what period was it obvious that corruption was widespread in the government?
mid-to-late Eastern Han
Who were considered to be below the social rank that scholars held?
The farmer
How many family members would commonly live in a single household during the Han era?
four to five
How did daughters get their portion of the family fortune?
marriage dowries
Which gender was exempt from performing the yearly corvee labor duties?
Women
What philosophy was given exclusivity in the court during the rule of Emperor Wu?
Confucianism
Who had produced biographies of individuals of significant importance?
various gentrymen
What type of torture was acquired from Qin law?
mutilation
What type of crop was rice considered to be during this period?
staple crops
What could be used to prevent a door from closing in a place of burial?
hollow clay tiles
Who made sacrifices to the main deities in this period?
the emperor
What was the purpose of breathing exercises to a Daoist?
achieve immortality
During was era did Buddhism first appear in the region?
Eastern Han
Who was responsible for nominations of local administrators in the government?
the emperor
Which individual had a duty to maintain the imperial stables?
The Minister Coachman
What individual was typically in charge of a commandery?
an Administrator
What gender was expected to be conscripted into the military?
male
How could conscription into military service be avoided?
one paid a commutable tax
Where did the Han dynasty receive their coin type from?
the Qin
What coin replaced the ban liangs after only a year of distribution?
wuzhu
Which group made up the bulk of the Han tax base?
landowner-cultivators
In which year did Emperor Wu monopolize several industries?
117 BC
What industry was monopolized by the government in 98 BC?
Liquor
What type of furnace was functional in China in 722 BC?
blast
What was an invention that allowed farmers to place their crops into rows?
The three-legged iron seed drill
What helped insure the safety of crops from wind?
the alternating fields system
What building material was used primarily during the Han dynasty?
Timber
How many stone pillar-gates survive from the Han era?
twenty-nine
What type of scholars have provided proof that mechanical engineering was prominent during the Han period?
Confucian
During which period was the odometer cart first created?
Han
What was used to power chain pumps to raise water to irrigation ditches?
Waterwheels
Who was responsible for the invention of the seismometer?
Zhang Heng
What type of treatise is the Book on Numbers and Computation considered to be?
mathematical
In what treatise did negative numbers first appear?
the Nine Chapters on the Mathematical Art
In what era was a geocentric view of the universe adopted?
Han
What textile were some of the early Han maps made from?
silk
What type of boat design was first invented during the Han era?
The junk design
Who believed that the same forces that controlled the universe also controlled the human body?
Han-era medical physicians
Which two seas have been most central to Greek history?
Aegean and Ionian seas
What progression coincided with the the early Greek states that makes it difficult to give credit for the language and differences ? 
Paleo-Balkan sprachbund that makes it difficult to delineate exact boundaries between individual languages.
What group of people came with others who left the geographical and historical region in southeastern Europe, now a mutual  region between Greece and Albania ?
the Dorians
How did the Greeks look upon their forebears ?
Greeks of classical antiquity idealized their Mycenaean ancestors
What event is believed to be the ethnic basis of the Greeks society?
The ethnogenesis of the Greek nation is linked to the development of Pan-Hellenism
The time span that is counted as the classical for the Greeks is from eras ?
classical period of Greek civilization covers a time spanning from the early 5th century BC to the death of Alexander the Great, in 323 BC
What Macedonian ruler helped to advance Greek beliefs and ways of life ?
Alexander
With the secession away from the smaller communities in the Grecian world, what living situation became of great importance ?
the Greeks move towards larger cities and a reduction in the importance of the city-state.
When did the religions of the past begin to dissipate ?
decline beginning in the 3rd century BC
What alternative name were the Greeks known by ?
the Greeks identified as Romaioi ("Romans")
When did the Byzantine Kingdom come under the impact of the Greeks. 
influenced by Greek culture after the 7th century,
What caused the resurface of the Grecian monotony in politics ?
the fall of Constantinople to the Crusaders of the Fourth Crusade in 1204
When did the emperor Constantine  lose rule over in 1453 ?
Fall of Constantinople on 29 May 1453
How were the population factions of the Ottoman Empire classified ?
religion was the defining characteristic of national groups
What did the Greeks offer to the Ottoman Empire that was a superb benefit ? 
the Greek tradition of education and commerce
When was the Greece that we know today officially formed ?
creation of the Modern Greek state in 1830
What do Westerners believe it means to belong to the Greek heritage ? 
Western standards, the term Greeks has traditionally referred to any native speakers of the Greek language, whether Mycenaean, Byzantine or modern Greek.
From what era is the Rigas Feraios believed to be a part of ?
Greek Enlightenment
What area is given to be the nesting point of a small group of pagans by a infamous philosopher from Greek ?
Hellenes" (/ˈhɛliːnz/) as a relatively small tribe settled in Thessalic Phthia,
what does the author of the mortal female focused early example hexameter poetry say of the Hellenic protector ?
Hellen was the son of Deucalion who ruled around Phthia in central Greece.
What interchangeable terms did Homer use in his poems for Greeks ?
Achaeans and Danaans
In Homer's poems who were the Greeks at odds with ?
Trojans
What is the easiest connection between the Greeks of old and those of today ?
most obvious link between modern and ancient Greeks is their language
In the Rupublic of Hellenic who is the ethnic majority and what percentage of the populace do they represent ?
Greeks are the majority ethnic group in the Hellenic Republic, where they constitute 93% of the country's population
Which colonial enterprise for land was the Greek Isles a part of 
British Empire
What other countries boast of a Greek populace ?
105,000 (disputed, sources claim higher) people, in Albania. The Greek minority of Turkey
How many people that are of Greek ascendancy live elsewhere than Greece ?
total number of Greeks living outside Greece and Cyprus today is a contentious issue
What helped to advance the Greek way of life beyond its boarders ?
the trading and colonizing activities of the Greek tribes and city states spread the Greek culture, religion and language
After freedom was won by the Greeks who was of import to forming the rules  ?
Greek War of Independence, Greeks of the diaspora were important in establishing the fledgling state
What is considered the start of the Grecian cultural world ?
beginning in the Mycenaean civilization
What other dialects share a thread with the Greek language. 
other Balkan languages, such as Albanian, Bulgarian and Eastern Romance languages (see Balkan sprachbund),
What is different about the use of Greek language today as opposed to the language of the past ?
Modern Greek has, in addition to Standard Modern Greek or Dimotiki, a wide variety of dialects
What is the religion of the Greek majority ?
Christians
What input did the Greeks have on artistry of the world ?
visual, literary and performing arts.
Who was one of the old masters from the Greeks ?
Greek artists include Renaissance painter Dominikos Theotokopoulos (El Greco), Panagiotis Do
What contribution to the scientific community have the Greeks left the world ?
science and helped lay the foundations of several western scientific traditions, like philosophy, historiography and mathematics
According to recent research who is enrolled in the Universities in Greece in higher number men or women ?
the percentages for female students being higher than for male
What are the representations of the Greek reference freedom or death that are held on a cloth symbol of the nation ?
flag of Greece, which features nine equal horizontal stripes of blue alternating with white
What names are used that are typically from  a father and have usually added a suffix or prefix ?
Greek surnames are most commonly patronymics
What are considered to be the motherland of the Greeks ?
Greek peninsula and the Aegean Sea, the Southern Italy (Magna Graecia), the Black Sea, the Ionian coasts of Asia Minor and the islands of Cyprus and Sicily
What else is this particular captain known for doing ? 
the explorer of the Northwestern passage Juan de Fuca
What was brought about by the Ottomans that caused and uplift in the classes of Greek society ?
Greek shipping tradition recovered during Ottoman rule when a substantial merchant middle class developed
What dominant hair color is to believed to be prevalent among Greeks 
conclusion the hair colour of young Greeks are mostly brown, ranging from light to dark brown
What location did many of the Greek people decide to live in other than Greece after the 19th century ?
Asia Minor (now Turkey)
Which angel is believed to have communicated the Quran to Muhammad?
Gabriel
Who first recorded Muhammad revelations?
companions of Muhammad
In which language is the Quran spoken during prayer?
Arabic
From which Arabic verb might "Quran" be derived?
qaraʼa
Which term used in the Quran to indicate itself means "book"?
kitāb
Which term meaning "the mother book" does the Quran apply to itself?
umm al-kitāb
In which mountain cave did Mohammad experience his first revelation?
Cave of Hira
What is the most common interpretation of the word "ummi" that the Quran applies to Muhammad?
illiterate
Which caliph decided to preserve the Quran as a single book after some of Muhammad's companions were killed in battle?
Abu Bakr
What is the term for recycled parchments used in ancient manuscripts?
palimpsests
What script were the Birmingham Quran fragments written in?
Hijazi
Which section of the Quran inspires some Muslims to ritually wash themselves before touching their copy?
56:79
What term indicates that the contents of the Quran cannot be reproduced in speech?
I'jaz
What is a chapter of the Quran called?
sura
What division of the Quran is used for a month-long reading?
juz'
Quranic verses concerning which phenomena are thought by Muslims to authenticate its contents?
natural
What fraction of the Quran deals with eschatology?
one-third
In what form does the Quran say God sends his messages to people?
signs and revelations
What mental state is the foundation of morality as described by the Quran?
Belief
Which astrophysicist has written about the ways the Quran encourages scientific thinking?
Nidhal Guessoum
Nature and its phenomena are mentioned in approximately how many of the Quran's verses?
750
Which physicist quoted the Quran in his address after receiving the Nobel Prize?
Abdus Salam
What description of the writing in the Quran highlights its poetic aspect?
rhymed prose
What is lacking in the arrangement of the Quranic text?
continuity
What metatextual character does Stefan Wild focus on in his discussion of the Quran?
Self-referentiality
What is the name of the activity of explaining what Quranic verses mean?
Tafsir
In which language is the Quran recited?
classical Arabic
What is another term for Sufi Quranic interpretation?
Esoteric
Beloved is a term for God used by which style of Quranic interpretation?
Sufi
Who was an important esoteric interpreter of the Quran in the 11th century?
Sulami
What is the Arabic term for the surface-level aspects of a text?
zahir
In which language was the Quran first translated?
Persian
In which year was the Quran first translated into a Western language?
1143
What discipline concerns the way the Quran is correctly recited?
tajwid
The absence of which language feature made early Quranic recitation more diverse?
Vocalization markers
Who created Quranic manuscripts before the 19th century?
calligraphers and copyists
In which century were vocalization marking added to the Quran?
ninth century
Which Biblical character is the most often mentioned person in the Quran?
Moses
What are the two type of ta'wil?
acceptable and unacceptable
Who had begun memorizing Muhammad's revelations in his lifetime?
his companions
What physical symptom accompanied Muhammad's revelations?
seizures
What was the original meaning of ta'wil?
"to return" or "the returning place"
Who do Shia Muslims believe can approach Quranic truths besides God and Muhammad?
imams
What is a nation which can exert its influence on a global scale called?
A great power
The term "great power" was first used on which continent?
Europe
What one criteria was used in early times to judge a great power's status?
strength for war
What three things do all states have in their geographic scope?
interests, actions, or projected power
What discussion should great powers be included on?
political and diplomatic questions of the day
When did Lord Castlereagh first use the term Great Powers?
in a letter sent on February 13, 1814
What 2 powers named in the 5 orignal great powers of the congress of vienna have maintained that status?
only France and the United Kingdom
Was the power of the 5 countries constant?
relative power of these five nations fluctuated
What marked the conclusion of The Great War?
treaties of Versailles, St-Germain, Neuilly, Trianon and Sèvres
Who were the four permanent members of the League of Nations Council?
United Kingdom, France, Italy, and Japan
When did World War II start?
1939
What is a superpower?
nations with overwhelming power and influence in the rest of the world
During the cold war, what European powers rebuilt their ecomonies?
United Kingdom, France, and West Germany
Since what time has military conflicts receded?
1960s
What formerly effective tool for international disputes is no longer effective among peer powers?
military force
What countries are recognized as Nuclear Weapons States?
China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States
What countries are great powers mostly based on economic reasons?
Japan and Germany
Zbigniew Brzezinski and Malik Mohan consider what country to be a great power too?
India
Milena Sterio includes what former axis powers among great powers?
Germany, Italy and Japan
What organization is often seen as a great power in addition to member counties?
European Union
How many wars occured between 1500s and 1953?
64
During the period from 1989 - 1996, what was the total are of the US in miles?
3,618,780 sq mi
Compared to other countries, how large is the US?
third or fourth largest country
Who does the US share land borders with?
Canada (to the north) and Mexico (to the south),
What is the capital city of the US?
Washington, District of Columbia
How many Great Lakes form a border with Canada?
four
What area is located in between the Mississippi River and the Rocky Mountains?
The Great Plains
Which northern country do the Rocky Mountains begin at?
Canada
What is the name of the plateau that lies west of the Rocky Mountains?
Intermontane Plateaus
What is the name of the range where the Intermontane plateaus end?
Cascade Range
What are two national parks located in the mountainous regions?
Yosemite and Mount Rainier
Why does the Appalachian Highland have the terrain it does?
crustal deformations
What originally covered the east coast of the Appalachians?
forest
What is one of the two major highlands that stretch from the gulf of mexico to the Arctic ocean?
Laurentian Highlands
What is the climate like in the Southern United States?
subtropical
Which areas have arid regions?
The Great Basin and Columbia Plateau
What is the most prevalent type of climate nCalifornia?
Mediterranean
Which mountainous region receives the highest snowfall on Earth?
mountains of the western states
Which region of the US receives the most amount of rainfall?
northwestern Pacific coast
Where are tornadoes most common on Earth?
central portions of the U.S.
The Great Mississippi occurred during what year?
1927
What is the area in the pacific known for heavy volcanic activity?
Pacific Ring of Fire
When did Audio CDs become available for purchase?
1982
In what year were digital and physical music sales the same?
2014
Who created Compact Disc prototypes in the 1970s?
Philips and Sony
In what year did Philips institute a laboratory to create a digital audio disc?
1977
Where was the 62nd AES Convention held?
Brussels
In what year did Sony and Philips band together to design a new digital audio disc?
1979
Who first sold a million copies on CD?
Dire Straits
What does ROM stand for?
read-only memory
When did CD sales experience their original decline?
the 2000s
How are CDs mass produced?
hydraulic press
What materials can be used to make the reflective layer on a CD?
usually aluminium, but sometimes gold or other metal
What is the term for a negative image of the glass master?
die
What is the priciest component of a CD?
jewel case
How long are CDs expected to last?
20 to 100 years
What does SCMS stand for?
Serial Copy Management System
How fast could the first ReWritable CD be written?
4x speed
Where is the semiconductor laser found in a CD player?
on a swing arm
What type of result from a CD will return a one?
change from pit to land or land to pit
Where can one expect to find damage on a disc?
label side of the disc
Where is the start of data on a CD?
the center
Where does the Red Book get it's name from?
the colour of its cover
How is graphics information read from a CD+ Graphics?
television set or a computer monitor
How much video can a CD-R contain?
60 minutes
How many images could Photo CDs initially contain?
100
When did record companies first attempt to protect their CDs from copying?
2001
What is the use of a transistor?
to amplify or switch electronic signals and electrical power
When was the first transistor created?
1926
When was the thermionic triode invented?
1907
At what time did Bardeen and Brattain experiment on increasing signal output?
November 17, 1947 to December 23, 1947
In what year was the point-contact transistor invented?
1948
How many transistors make up a logic gate?
up to about twenty transistors
Why is a transistor so useful?
gain
How many types of transistors are there?
two
Why does the collector voltage drop in grounded-emitter transistor circuits?
reduced resistance from collector to emitter
What is a major problem with using bipolar transistors as switches?
Providing sufficient base drive current
How are parameters chosen in a switching circuit?
the "off" output is limited to leakage currents too small to affect connected circuitry
What gives bipolar transistors their name?
they conduct by using both majority and minority carriers
How many terminals do BJTs have?
three
What determines the conductivity in a FET?
electric field that is produced when a voltage is applied between the gate and source terminals
How many groups are FETs split into?
two
How are FET's separated?
depletion-mode and enhancement-mode types
What was the most frequently used transistor in the 1960s and 70s?
bipolar junction transistor
What is the Pro Electron standard?
European Electronic Component Manufacturers Association part numbering scheme
What does the JEDEC EIA370 transistor number start with?
2N
What was once an indicator of the devices creator?
a manufacturer's prefix
What is the junction forward voltage?
the voltage applied to the emitter–base junction of a BJT
What semiconductor has the highest electron mobility?
GaAs
What is a discrete transistor?
individually packaged transistors
What did many people in the Pre-Modern era express their faith through?
via a faith in some form of deity
What term was coined in the 16th century to indicate present time?
modern
What term was created in the 1930's to separate the middle ages form the 1800's?
Early Modern
In what era were there many socio-technological trends?
Contemporary era
Who controlled the Asian Sphere during the period between 1600-1868?
Chinese dynasties and Japanese shogunates
Name one of the reasons urbanization grew in China.
population grew
What was founded after the fall of the Ming?
The Qing dynasty
What was society based on during the Tukugawa period?
strict class hierarchy
Who ruled most of India in the early 18th century?
Mughal Empire
What did the development of new imperialism cause?
the conquest of nearly all eastern hemisphere territories by colonial powers.
In what year did the Maratha states lose to the British East Company?
1818
What dispatched of The Dutch East India Company and the British East India Company?
their respective governments
In what year did the fall of Constantinople happen? 
1453
When did Russia experience territorial growth?
the 17th century
What bridged the middle ages to the modern era?
European intellectual transformation
From where does the phrase humanist originate? 
the 15th century
What did renaissance humanism reference?
Latin and Greek classical texts
What was the basis of the quarrel between the Ancients and the moderns?
literary and artistic
What did the Scientific Revolution cause?
a transition to modern science
What happened to the king after the trial?
execution of the king
What characterized the Napoleonic Era?
The campaigns of French Emperor and General Napoleon Bonaparte
What is Italian Unification?
social movement that annexed different states of the Italian peninsula into the single state of Italy
What event did the American revolution cause?
British monarchy itself to become the sovereign United States of America.
Where did the American Revolution start?
Lexington and Concord
What is the decolonization of the Americas? 
the process by which the countries in the Americas gained their independence from European rule.
Who did the central Junta fall to?
the French
When did the first industrial revolution merge into the second? 
around 1850
What is industrialization? 
social and economic change
When did the modern petroleum industry start? 
1846
In what fields did achievements occur during the revolution?
electrification to developments in materials science.
Thomas Edison is credited with?
the creation of the first industrial research laboratory
When did the European revolutions occur?
1848
What did the reformers look to to solve social problems?
Scientific Revolution and industrial progress
Under whom was Russia declared an empire?
Peter I
What was the Victorian era of the United Kingdom? 
the period of Queen Victoria's reign
What did defeating Napoleon leave Britain without?
any serious international rival
What was British imperial strength replace by?
steamship and the telegraph
The Bourbon Restoration followed what event?
Napoleon I of France
What countries were involved in the Franco-Russian war?
France and Prussia
Why did European powers lay claim to areas Africa?
exhibit a sphere of influence over the area
What percent of the worlds population did Africa posses at the Berlin Conference?
one-fifth
Through what period did European powers expand control in Africa?
1880s to 1914
What was the Meija era marked by?
the reign of the Meiji Emperor
Laws mandated that every able bodies Japanese citizen do what?
serve a mandatory term of three years with the first reserves and two additional years with the second reserves.
What is the antebellum age?
a period of increasing division in the country based on the growth of slavery
What did northern leaders agree on about slavery?
all forms of slavery or quasi-slavery had to be eliminated.
What happened in the Glided Age/
extravagant displays of wealth and excess of America's upper-class
What creations brought in the modern industrial economy?
transportation and communication infrastructure
When did modern physics arise?
early 20th century
Why did Chinese philosophy begin to mix with western concepts?
as steps toward modernization
When was the enlightenment of spiritual philosophy challenged?
in various quarters around the 1900s.
What is Albert Einstein known for? 
his theories of special relativity and general relativity
What is the federation of Australia?
six separate British self-governing colonies of New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia formed one nation.
What were the last days of the Qing dynasty marked by? 
civil unrest and foreign invasions.
When was the Republic of China established?
1912
What happened to China after the 20th century revolutions?
shifting alliances of China's regional warlords waged war for control of the Beijing government.
When dd the Russo-Japanese war take place?
Four years into the 20th century
What is the Edwardian era?
the period spanning the reign of King Edward VII up to the end of the First World War,
What is The Triple Entente?
the name given to the loose alignment between the United Kingdom, France, and Russia after the signing of the Anglo-Russian Entente in 1907.
Where was the Baghdad Railway Suppose to connect?
Ottoman Empire cities of Konya and Baghdad with a line through modern-day Turkey, Syria and Iraq
When did the first World War begin? 
1914
Where did most of the fighting in World War I take place?
along the Western Front
In what century did the Nationalistic revolutions occur?
mid-19th century's
What event happened in October of 1917?
a red faction revolution
When was the armistice signed between Russia and Central powers?
1917
Where did Soviets under the rule of the  Bolshevik first assume power during the Russian Civil War?
Petrograd (St. Petersburg)
Who was the principal fighting between?
Bolshevik Red Army and the forces of the White Army.
What did the May Fourth movement help do?
rekindle the then-fading cause of republican revolution.
What is the "Roaring Twenties" ?
social and societal upheaval
When did the hyperinflation of  1923 occur?
1923
What changed worldwide property drasrically?
the onset of the Great Depression
Where did the depression cause negative effects?
virtually every country
When did Americas Great Depression end?
1941
When was The League of Nations created?
after the First World War
Who was first to invade Manchuria?
Japan
When did the seizure of Manchuria occur?
September 1931
What did the United States place on Japans war efforts?
embargoes
Where did Japan attack the United States?
Pearl Harbor
What Was estimated amount of deaths during the war?
62 million
What is the Holocaust?
was the deliberate and systematic murder of millions of Jews and other "unwanted"
What was Europe split into after World War II?
Western and Soviet spheres of influence.
By what percentage did the world's per-capita gross domestic product grow by during the 20th century?
a factor of five
What did the media industry make possible in the middle of the century?
brutal dictatorships
what did the Soviet Union annex some of it's territory as?
Soviet Socialist Republics
Through what time period did the Berlin Blockade  last?
1948–1949
During what time was the cold war close to happening?
1980s and the early 1990s
What caused Latin America's right-wing authorities to support coup o'etats?
in the 1970s, leftists acquired a significant political influence
What is the space age?
a period encompassing the activities related to the Space Race, space exploration, space technology, and the cultural developments influenced by these events.
What types of control are considered when labeling a country with the perjorative "51st state" label?
excessive American cultural or military influence or control
What does Article IV, Section three of the US Constitution outline?
the relationship among the states
What country has been regarded as a potential new addition to the United States?
Puerto Rico has been discussed as a potential 51st state of the United States
How long has Puerto Rico had representation in Congress?
Since 1898
What types of taxes do Puerto Ricans pay?
U.S. federal taxes
In the aftermath of which war was the U.S. granted Puerto Rico?
Spanish–American War
How was the Puerto Rican constitution brought about?
the U.S. Congress directed local government to organize a constitutional convention to write the Puerto Rico Constitution
How is Puerto Rico designated in its constitution?
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
What percentage of voters rejected the status of territory?
54 percent
What newspaper suggested that Congress would ignore Puerto Rico's referendum?
The Hill
What politicians pushed for statehood for Puerto Rico?
Resident Commissioner Pedro Pierluisi, Governor Luis Fortuño
When was H.R. 2000 introduced?
On May 15, 2013
Who considered the implications of the definition of the seat of government in the Constitution?
James Madison
What Revolutionary War motto have Washington, D.C. statehood supporters modified and used?
"No taxation without representation", omitting the initial "No"
What party carried the position of D.C. Statehood?
D.C. Statehood Party
What is another likely country for statehood?
Guam
What country had small grassroots movement for US Statehood?
The Philippines
What is another connotation for the 51st state label?
if a certain political course is taken, Canada's destiny will be as little more than a part of the United States
Who suggested that the Free Trade Agreement amounted to an American takeover of Canada?
Liberals
When did Quebec land in British hands?
1763
When were the last days of the Dominion of Newfoundland?
In the late 1940s
What does Canada being referred to as the 51st state in a positive way mean in the US, generally?
can serve to highlight the similarities and close relationship between the United States and Canada
When did Panama have the US-ruled Canal Zone Territory?
from 1903 to 1979
What country was Cuba a territory of?
Spain
Why is Israel referred to as the 51st state?
the annual funding and defense support it receives from the United States
When did Artcle 3 of the Treaty of San Francisco come into effect?
April 1952
When did the 51st State Party attempt to register in New Zealand?
2010
Who is the mayor of Tirana?
Edi Rama,
When did the US control Greenland?
when Denmark was occupied by Nazi Germany
What had been Poland's stance towards the US, historically?
staunchly pro-American
How many members did the Party of Reconstruction in Sicily have in 1944?
40,000 members
What are the four categories of terra nullius?
the small unclaimed territory of Bir Tawil between Egypt and Sudan, Antarctica, the oceans, and celestial bodies
What device is able to change electric powerinto radio waves and also do the reverse?
An antenna
What is frequently used to connect elements to the receiver?
transmission line
What is an acceptable synonym for antenna?
aerial
Who is most associated with the emergence of the word antenna?
Guglielmo Marconi
What is essential for the mating of the elements that create radio waves?
Antennas
What is the main element of an omnidirectional antenna?
metal rod
Are basic antennas expensive?
relatively inexpensive
What are different designs aimed at increasing?
gain of the antenna
How many antenna would make up a phased array?
two or more
What type of antenna formation is made up of multiple dipole elements of varying lengths?
log-periodic dipole array
For radio broadcast that one would hear in their car what type of towers are used?
vertical
What is mainly responsible for the connection of the antenna to its end destinations?
antenna lead-in
Monopole antennas consist of what element?
metal rod
What is the most widley used antenna class?
dipole antenna
What must be true of the antenna and transmission medium for the repiprocity rule to apply ?
linear and reciprocal
How could one deide what type of antenna is nedded for a project?
performance measures
Which antenna type would be best for a project requiring a specific frequency?
Resonant antennas
What is the essential difference in radio waves transmitted by an antenna?
polarization
What particle's migration does the resonance principle rely on?
electrons
What part of the radio signal creates voltage?
electrical component
What is the most popular antenna type?
half-wave dipole
What frequency are antennas normally designed to be?
f0
How do quarter wave elements act in relation to a series relevant electrical element?
imitate
For use with more than one channel changes are made to increase what property?
impedance matching
 If your were unable to match the source frequency with the design frequency of the antenna what could you use?
resonant multiples
What accounts for the geometry involved in the use of an antenna?
inverse square law
What is a half wave dipole need to be coupled with in most instances?
feed point
What can take advantage of these elements to add more gain?
Yagi-Uda array
What can be paired with transmission lines to create phases that would support output?
active elements
If you wanted to somehow clone the original signal you could use?
extended conductive surface
What magnifies the small radiation resistance of a loop?
a capacitor at the frequency of operation
What is left after antenna tuning?
resistive impedance
What type of antenna has impedance at a specific frequency?
resonant
What characteristic of the conductor changes the amount of reactance?
diameter
What effect do cages have on the spectrum of usable frequencies?
widens
What is an acknowledgement of the range of possible direction for and antenna?
gain
Antennas with higher gain have what positive feature?
longer range
What must the relationship of an antenna and the receiving area be due to reciprocity?
proportional
A plot of the radiation behaviors of an antenna would show what?
relative field strength
What is the term that refers to areas where an antennas radiation is zero? 
nulls
What is one piece that makes up an antenna system?
radio
A measure of the power that is useable and the power absorbed by the terminals?
Efficiency
What would need to be placed into the transmitter to create ten W oh warmth? 
100 W
What can increase the feedpoint impedance of a component?
loss resistance
What is the median level for measuring atmospheric noise?
thermal noise floor
What else is also known as power gain?
antenna gain
Small and minimal frequency antennas are know to be what?
inefficient
How many polarizations will a antenna have when mounted vertically?
one
What mostly affects polarization?
Reflections
Whats predictable about an antenna's geometry?
Polarization
What are electrical fields projected on to?
imaginary plane
What is the best for an recieving antenna for optimum reception?
match the polarization
What requires matching of the empedance to an antenna system?
Maximum power transfer
What can be shorter than 1/4 wavelength long?
whip antenna
What is not adjustable when it comes to a transformer?
turns ratio
What antenna's are nonresonant?
traveling wave antennas
What is the radiation patter influenced by?
dielectric constant
What is the net quality of the ground dependent of?
topography
What is the refractive index of the ground?
n=2
Who proposed this theory?
Fresnel coefficients
What is the portion of something that is reached by the radio transmission called?
aperture
The properties of a usable radio frequency can be called its?
Q
What can be added to allow for an antenna shorter than the needed height to produce desired results?
loading coil
How big would an antenna be used to with with one m wavelengths?
50 cm
What sort of changes in material would a current reflect?
electrical
What is used to allow one to control the function of wave fronts moving through an antenna?
selectively delay
What can receive a stron signal by transmitting an original wave?
actual antenna
What is between recieving and transmitting antenna's?
horizontal propagation
What is another name for classical television transmissions?
analog
Where are the indiviual array elements known?
antenna arrays
a antenna element not connected to anything is circuited how?
open circuited
What type of programmin relies on vertical polarization?
broadcasting
What type of antenna can be formed by a circular segment of wire?
Loop antennas
Are essential properties of an antenna changed based on what fungtion they are performing
the same
What are the most diverse group of land plants?
angiosperms
How long have higher plants lived on land?
at least 475 million years
What did Charles Darwin call the sudden appearance of nearly modern flowers in the fossil record?
abominable mystery
How many distinct rounds of genome duplication events are suspected in the evolution of seed plants?
two
When is the earliest known macrofossil identified as an angiosperm dated?
about 125 million years BP
When does a great diversity of angiosperms appear in the fossil record?
approximately 100 million years ago
What is one proposed explanation for the instant appearance of flowering plants?
Island genetics
What are animals also a part of?
distribution of seeds
What uses a combination of genes to form new shoots?
Flower ontogeny
How long has flower evolution occurred? 
present day
What three groups were the first to diverge from angiosperm?
Amborellales, Nymphaeales, and Austrobaileyales
What term did Paul Hermann come up with in 1690?
Angiosperm
In taxonomies, what type of group are flowering plants treated?
coherent
What consensus is the AGP trying to reach?
how the flowering plants should be arranged
What type of groups do monocots form, based on a recent APG studies?
monophyletic
What is the estimated range for the number of flowering plants?
250,000 to 400,000
What shape are the bundles in the young stem of dicotyledons arranged in?
an open ring
What is the defining feature of angiosperms?
flower
What is a willow's flower comprised of?
only a few stamens or two carpels
What sexual feature do a majority of flowers demonstrate?
hermaphrodite
What process does double fertilization refer to?
two sperm cells fertilize cells in the ovary
The appearance of the seed coat bears a definite relation to that of what?
the fruit
On what is agriculture almost completely dependent?
angiosperms
Which city is the capital of Telangana?
Hyderabad (i/ˈhaɪdərəˌbæd/ HY-dər-ə-bad; often /ˈhaɪdrəˌbæd/) is the capital of the southern Indian state of Telangana
In what year was Hyderabad established?
Established in 1591
Which individual commissioned Chaminar?
Muhammad Quli Qutb
What items had been historically traded in Hyderabad?
pearl and diamond
What does the Oxford Concise Dictionary of World Place Names say Hyderabad means?
"Haydar's city" or "lion city"
There may be Iron Age findings near Hyderabad, what age are they thought to be from?
500 BCE
Who defeated the Kakatiya dynasty in 1310?
Sultan Alauddin Khilji
What position did Sultan Quli hold?
governor of Golkonda
What position did Farrukhsiyar hold?
emperor
Whom did the Nizam ally with in the late 18th century?
East India Company
On what date did the Indian Army take control of Hyderabad?
1948. On 17 September
On what date was Hyderabad state divided into three?
1 November 1956
How far south of Delhi, in miles, is Hyderabad?
973 mi
What is the mean yearly temperature in Hyderabad in Celsius?
26.6 °C
What is the name of the largest zoo in Hyderabad?
Nehru Zoological Park
What is the entity that controls the infrastructure of Hyderabad?
The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC)
Which Hyderabad agency is responsible for the largest area?
Hyderabad Police
What dam began to provide water to Hyderabad in 2005?
Nagarjuna Sagar Dam
Where is the site where Hyderabad's solid waste is dumped?
Jawaharnagar
How many government hospitals did Hyderabad have in 2010?
50
What percentage of the children in Hyderabad city had basic vaccinations in 2005?
61%
What was the area of Hyderabad before the GHMC?
175 km2 (68 sq mi)
What are the people who live in Hyderabad called?
Hyderabadi
Which percentage of Hyderabad's population is below the poverty line?
13%
In what region of Hyderabad is Mecca Masjid?
south central Hyderabad
Where in Hyderabad is the Secunderabad Railway Station?
North of central Hyderabad
After a flood in what year did Hyderabad expand?
1908
What influence did Qutb Shahi architecture borrow from?
classical Persian architecture
The Chowmahalla Palace represents what type of architecture?
Nizam architecture
Where was Hyderabad ranked in 2012 as a producer of GDP in Talangana?
the largest
In the 18th century there was one global trading hub for large diamonds, what was it?
Hyderabad
In what year was Indian Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Limited established?
1961
What percentage of Hyderabad's employed are employed informally?
30%
What event pushed Hyderabad to the top of India's cultural centres?
the decline of the Mughal Empire
What are mushairas?
poetic symposia
In what year did the Hyderabad Literary Festival start?
2010
What is the Deccan region known for culturally?
music and dances such as the Kuchipudi and Bharatanatyam
What type of art might one encounter at Lalithakala Thoranam?
theatre and drama
Golconda is a type of what kind of painting?
Deccani painting
In which century did metalwork become popular in Hyderabad?
the 18th century
What type of foods are generally thought of as a part of Hyderabadi cuisine?
rice, wheat and meat dishes
When was The Deccan Times founded?
the 1780s
When did Doordarshan begin broadcasting in Hyderabad?
1974
What entity controls the schools in Hyderabad?
Central Board of Secondary Education
How many universities are in Hyderabad?
13
How many medical schools are in Hyderabad?
five
What type of school is Raffles Millennium International?
fashion design
Two of the most popular sports played in Hyderabad include association football, what is the other?
cricket
At what time was Secunderabad an important sport center?
During British rule
Ghulam Ahmed and Shivlal Yadav are what kind of sportsmen?
cricketers
What type of transport that is not government owned is commonly used in Hyderabad?
taxis and auto rickshaws
In 2012 how many vehicles were driving in Hyderabad?
3.5 million
How many national highways form a junction in Hyderabad?
three
What type of city is Santa Monica?
beachfront
What did indigenous people that lived in Santa Monica call it previously?
Kecheek
What ethic group grew in the 20th century?
Asian
Who built a plant in Clover field?
Donald Wills Douglas, Sr
What brought on the Douglas business's company growth?
World War II
What year was the Sanat Monica Pier buildt?
1909
The Third Street Promenade is located in what part of Santa Monica?
Downtown District
What event does the Chamber of commerce host in the fall?
The Taste of Santa Monica
Roughly how many days of sunshine does Santa Monica get annually? 
310
In what two years were the first Sustainable City Plan's introduced?
1992 and in 1994
What is the name of the urban runoff facility?
(SMURFF)
What year does the city plan on having a bicycle infrastructure?
2030
What was the total average family size?
2.79
How many citizen's were in the year 2000 census?
84,084
What year was the Santa Monica junior college founded?
1929
What plan launched a Bicycle sharing system?
bike action
What is the name of the Santa Monica Freeway?
Interstate 10
Beginning in what decade did the Santa Monica  Expo Air Line host freight and passenger services?
1920s
In 2006 what percent of the population was impacted by crime?
4.41%
In what year was there a double homicide?
1999
What is one of the oldest exterior shots in Santa Monica?
Buster Keaton's Spite Marriage
What type of games is Santa Monica featured in?
video
When was Washington University founded?
1853
Who was the first chancellor of Washington University?
Joseph Gibson Hoyt.
What was one of the names that was initially considered for Washington University in St. Louis?
Eliot Seminary
Where was Washington University located? 
17th Street and Washington Avenue
When was did Washington University open its law school?
1867
Where was Washington University located during the first half of the 1800's. 
downtown St. Louis
When did Washington University hold a national design contest for the new campus?
1899
What role did Arthur Holly Compton serve at Washington University?
chancellor
When did Washington University begin desegregation?
1947
When did Washington University begin construction of a complex of residential halls?
1957
What years were presidential debates held at Washington University?
1992, 2000, 2004, and 2016
What was Chancellor Wrighton's initial sentiment to hosting another presidential debate at Washington University after 2004?
it would be "improbable" that the university will host another debate and was not eager to commit to the possibility
How many freshman class applications did Washington University receive in 2013?
30,117
What is the current national rank of the School of Medicine at Washington University?
sixth in the nation
Where is Washington University's north campus located?
St. Louis City near the Delmar Loop
Where is the West Campus of Washington University located?
Clayton, Missouri
Where is Tyson Research Center located?
west of St. Louis on the Meramec River
How many divisions make up Arts & Sciences at Washington University?
three divisions
When was Olin Business School founded?
1917
How many alumni does Olin Business School have worldwide?
more than 16,000 alumni
How many majors are available to students in the business school at Washington University?
eight
With what schools does the Washington University School of Law offer joint-degree programs? 
Olin Business School, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, the School of Medicine, and the School of Social Work
Where do students in the Washington University School of Law place among test takers on average?
96th percentile
When was the Washington University School of Medicine founded?
1891
When was the George Warren Brown School of Social Work founded?
1925
Who is the Brown School's current Dean? 
Edward F. Lawlor
When was the Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum established?
1881
How many schools does Washington University have?
seven
How much money in financial support did Washington University receive in 2007?
$537.5 million
How many student organizations does Washington University have on campus?
300
How many a cappella groups does Washington University have?
12
What percent of undergraduate students live on campus at Washington University?
Over 50%
Where is the Village located at Washington University?
the northwest corner of Danforth Campus
How many media outlets does Washington University support?
four
What is the name of the Washington University sports teams?
the Bears
What is the CIA's main focus?
overseas intelligence gathering
What is the title of the person who manages the relationship between the CIA and the Unified Combatant Commands?
The Associate Director of military affairs
How many regional analytic groups does the Directorate of Analysis have?
four
What office is in charge of collecting foreign intelligence?
The Directorate of Operations
In what year did the CIA establish its first training facility?
1950
What year was the Central Intelligence Agency Act created?
1949
What was the first year the CIA's budget was disclosed?
1963
What is the UK's equivalent to the CIA?
Secret Intelligence Service
Which four countries can share communications with the U.S. IC?
Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom
What president authorized the creation of the intelligence service?
Franklin D. Roosevelt
Which act got rid of the NIA and the CIG?
National Security Act
Who was appointed to be the new Director of the CIA in 1950?
Walter Bedell Smith
Who wanted the CIA to have a central group that organized information for him?
Truman
Who created the Office of Special Operations?
Hoyt Vandenberg
In what year was directive 10/2 issued?
1948
How many troops did the Chinese enter into the Korean War?
300,000
What type of stimuli causes pain?
intense or damaging
What is the most common reason people go to the doctor in first world countries?
Pain
What year did the IASP respond to the need to create a more useful system for describing pain?
1994
What is usually temporary?
Pain
Stimulating nociceptors will induce which type of pain?
Nociceptive
What type of of pain is visceral a division of?
Nociceptive
What percentage of people who've had upper limbs amputated feel phantom pain?
nearly 82%
What happens when an anesthetic injection is directed into the nerves a limb stump?
may relieve pain
What is paraplegia?
loss of sensation and voluntary motor control
What triad are the inventory scales of hysteria, depression and hypochondriasis classified as?
neurotic
What is the term for pain which is acute and note alleviated by normal pain management?
Breakthrough
Which type of injection has caused patients to report they have pain but aren't bothered by it?
morphine
An abnormality of the nervous system can render a small number of people insensitive to what?
pain
When was Descartes pontificating about his theories regarding pain?
1644
What year was peripheral pattern theory developed? 
1955
How many dimensions did Melzack and Casey describe pain in terms of?
three
What type of signal can be generated by intense enough stimulation of any sensory receptor?
pain
How does the pain signal travel from the periphery to the spinal cord?
along an A-delta or C fiber
What are some spinal cord fibers exclusive to?
A-delta
Who wrote "The Greatest Show on Earth: The Evidence for Evolution"?
Richard Dawkins
Along with with ethnicity and genetics, what is the other factor associated with differences in pain perception?
sex
What is the most reliable measure of pain?
person's self-report
What is MPI an abbreviation for?
Multidimensional Pain Inventory
What become critical when a person is non-verbal? 
observation
Why may older adults quit doing activities the love?
because it hurts too much
What kind of barriers can prevent a person from telling someone they're in pain?
Cultural
What does the IASP advocate that the relief of pain should be recognized as?
a human right
What, when taken orally, can reduce total crying time of newsborns undergoing a painful procedure?
Sugar
Clinical hypnosis may be effective in doing what with pain associated with surgical procedures in adults and children?
controlling
What is the most common reason people seek out alternative medicine?
Pain
What type of topic is physical pain important in relation to many issues?
political
What is the most reliable method of learning about pain in a human?
asking a question
What about pain in an animal isn't able to be known with certainty?
presence
What does DBMS stand for?
database management system
How is data accessed?
by a "database management system" (DBMS)
What do most database applications contain?
DBMSs
How long can it take to create a DBMS?
thousands of human years
How are many databases accessed?
application software
Who created the relational model of DBMS?
Edgar F. Codd
Why was COBOL created?
Interest in a standard
What was the DBMS created by IBM called?
Information Management System (IMS)
Who proposed using a table to store data?
Codd
How was the relational model able to improve over time?
without constant rewriting of links and pointers
How is information stored in a navigational system?
in a single record
What is a key used for?
uniquely defining a particular record
How does a program collect information using a navigational system?
require programs to loop
Who used Codd's paper at Berkeley to improve a geographical database?
Eugene Wong and Michael Stonebraker
What is a CAFS accelerator?
a hardware disk controller with programmable search capabilities
What is the system IBM created using Codd's research?
System R
Who created dBASE?
C. Wayne Ratliff
In the 1990s, what type of programming changed the handling of databases?
object-oriented
What kind of database is XML?
structured document-oriented database
What is used to offer a balance in guarantees?
eventual consistency
What should a conceptual data model do?
reflects the structure of the information to be held
A conceptual data model in separate from the choice of what?
database technology
What decisions must be made in the last stage of database design?
performance, scalability, recovery, security
How many conceptual or physical views of data are there?
one
What does the conceptual view offer?
a level of indirection between internal and external
What is responsible for putting information into permanent storage?
database engine
What does database access limit?
who (a person or a certain computer program) is allowed to access what information
What does data security avoid?
unauthorized users from viewing or updating the database
What is a unit of work called in a database?
transaction
Why would someone attempt to unite two different databases?
primarily economical
Name a reason to take a database backward in time?
database is found corrupted
How can static analysis be useful with query languages?
software verification
What is the largest populated city in Arizona?
Phoenix
What was Tuscon known as 12,000 years ago?
southern Arizona
What year did Mexico gain independence from Spain?
1821
What was the date when Arizona was bought?
June 8, 1854
What date did William Whitney Brazelton Die? 
August 19, 1878
What county is Tuscon located in?
Pima County
Which Mountain has the Highest point surrounding Tuscon?
Mount Wrightson
How many miles is Tuscon from Phoenix?
118
Which interstate is the only one that uses kilometer posts instead of mileposts?
I-19
What was the Union Pacific once known as?
Southern Pacific
Which architect designed the Broadway Village shopping Center?
Josias Joesler
What is Tuscon's largest Park?
Reid Park
Where does E.University Blvd. lead to?
Fourth Avenue Shopping District
What is the percentage of Native Americans in South Tuscon?
10%
What interstate is the West side west of? 
I-10
What else is Sentinel Peak also known as?
'A' Mountain
What is the Foothills west of?
Sabino Creek
How many residents live in the master-planned communities?
thousands
What is considered Tuscon's first suburb?
Casas Adobes
What park was developed between the 1950's and 1970's?
Desert Palms Park
Who bought The sanitarium in 1928?
Harvey Adkins
Where is a great place to bird watch in Southeast Tuscon?
The Atterbury Wash
How many miles is Catalina Highway?
25
What kind of climate is Tuscon?
desert
What year did the "Stupid Motorist Law" come in effect?
1995
What are Tucson's typical winter high temperatures?
between 64 and 75 °F (18 and 24 °C)
On what two occasions was Tucson's record high?
June 19, 1960, and July 28, 1995
In what month did Tucson get the most rain?
August 1955
How many households are there in Tucson as of 2010?
229,762
What is the second-largest employer in Tucson?
University of Arizona
What was Raytheon previously called?
Hughes Aircraft Co.
When did the Tucson Festival of Books begin?
2009
When is the Tucson Folk Festival held?
the first Saturday and Sunday of May
What season is February in Tucson?
spring
What time of day is The Procession?
sundown
What famous writers have lived in Tucson?
Edward Abbey, Erskine Caldwell, Barbara Kingsolver and David Foster Wallace
Who is thought to have led to calling Tucson 'The Old Pueblo'?
Mayor R. N. "Bob" Leatherwood
How many times has the University of Arizona men's basketball team won NCAA tournaments?
25
Where did the Tucson Sidewinders move to?
Reno, Nevada
Where does Tucson hold NASCAR races?
Tucson Raceway Park
Who said Tucson is bicycle-friendly, in 2007?
The League of American Bicyclists
Which political party does Tucson usually support?
Democratic
When is Tucson's city council primary?
September
When did Tucson begin offering city council candidates public funding?
1985
What is Tucson's daily general newspaper?
Arizona Daily Star
What is Tucson's NBC station?
KVOA 4
Who runs Tucson's main power plant?
Tucson Electric Power
How is most of Tucson's water used?
Agriculture (including golf courses)
How is Tucson replenishing its groundwater?
running part of its share of CAP water into various open portions of local rivers to seep into their aquifer
What is the CAP?
Central Arizona Project Aqueduct
How long is the Sun Link?
3.9-mile
Why is cycling popular in Tucson?
its flat terrain and dry climate
What kind of government does Armenia have?
democratic
Which two empires ruled Armenia between the 16 and 19th Century?
Ottoman and successive Iranian empires
What name did Armenia gain it's name from?
Aram
When was the capital of Armenia established?
782 BC
Under who did Areminia become fully sovereign?
King Artaxias I
Who established the Arsacid dynasty of Armenia?
Tiridates I
When was the Marzpanate era?
428–636
Who vanquished Bagratid Armenia?
the Byzantine Empire
Which family overthrew the Seljuk Turks?
the Zakarid
Which empires seperated Armenia?
Ottoman Empire and Safavid Empire
How many Armenians were slaughtered between 1894-1896
80,000 to 300,000
What is another name for the Armenian Revolutionary Federation?
Dashnaktsutyun
When did the Adana massacre take place?
April 1909
What instigated conflict between the Ottoman and Russian Empire?
World War I
What do the Armenians see the events of 1915-1917 as?
state-sponsored mass killings, or genocide
How many Armenians died during the second phase of the Armenian Genocide between 1915-1916??
600,000
Who was in charge of the Russian Caucasus Army of Imperial forces?
Nikolai Yudenich
When was the Treaty of Sevres signed?
10 August 1920
When was the Treaty of Alexandropol sanctioned?
2 December 1920
When was the Transcaucasian SFSR formed?
4 March 1922
Who provided the Armenians with supplies?
Moscow
Who succeeded Stalin?
Nikita Khruschev
In what year did Armenia suffer from a catastrophic earthquake?
1988
What does NAA stand for?
New Armenian Army
Continued fighting transpired between the Armenians and Soviets in which city?
Sovetashen
When did Turkey decide to become part of the blockade against Armenia?
1993
When did the Karabakh War end?
1994
What is the lowest score on the Democracy Score scale?
7
With who does Armenia have bad relations?
Turkey and Azerbaijan
When did Turkey close off its border with Armenia?
1993
When did Armenia and Turkey initiate an attempt to reopen their border?
10 October 2009
Russia has a military base in which city in Armenia?
Gyumri
How many of Armenias inhabitants approve of becoming part of the EU?
64%
When was the Armenian military created?
1991
What does CSTO stand for?
Collective Security Treaty Organisation
How many hamaynkner does Armenia have?
915
What group is opening a research center in Armenia?
Intel Corporation
Was agriculture more important before or after Armenia left the Soviet Union?
After
How many people died because of the Spitak earthquake?
more than 25,000
What did Armenia declare a cease-fire to in 1994?
Nagorno-Karabakh conflict
What does IMF stand for?
International Monetary Fund
What is the unemployment rate in Armenia?
15%
What percent of Armenian children go to preschool?
35%
When was Yerevan State Medical University awarded the Order of Labor red Banner?
1980
Who is in charge of releasing the World Directory of Medical Schools?
WHO
What does OLPC stand for?
One Laptopschool Per child
What are some examples of Armenian folk music instruments?
the duduk, the dhol, the zurna, and the kanun
What is kef?
Armenian dance music, using Armenian and Middle Eastern folk instruments
Who is the most well know kef artist?
Richard Hagopian
What type of musician is Sahan Arzruni?
pianist
What is Obsidian used for?
jewellery and ornamental objects
How many pieces can be found in the Yerevan National Art Gallery?
more than 16,000
Which lake is most popular for water sports in Armenia?
Lake Sevan
What Olympic Sport did Hrant Shahinyan compete in?
gymnastics
What team won the Soviet football Cup in 1973 and 1975?
FC Ararat Yerevan team
Who provided the funds to rebuild the Armenian sports schools?
the Armenian government
What type of food is Armenian food most similair to?
eastern and Mediterranean cuisine
What is a large domain of prokaryotic microorganisms?
Bacteria
What amount of bacteria can be found in a gram of soil?
40 million bacterial cells
What is the ratio of human/bacteria cells in human flora?
ten times as many bacterial cells
What living organisms are bacteria being reffered as?
prokaryotes
When did the first antecedents of bacteria appear on Earth?
4 billion years ago
Are bacteria cells smaller than eukaryotic cells?
one-tenth the size
What shape does usually cocci type of bacteria can be?
spherical
What is the usual form for Neiserria bacteria?
diploids (pairs)
What does bacteria use to adhere to surfaces?
biofilms
What is the vital nutriment for Myxobacteria?
amino acids
What is a cell membrane?
lipid
What is crucial for biochemical reactions?
concentration gradients across membranes
What is genetic make of bacteria?
a single circular DNA chromosome
What types of intracellar nutrient can bacteria produce?
glycogen, polyphosphate, sulfur or polyhydroxyalkanoates
What composes the cell envelope?
cell membrane and cell wall
What does gram-positive bacteria have?
thick cell wall containing many layers of peptidoglycan and teichoic acids
What is the most typical staining technique used to identify acid-fast bacteria?
Ziehl-Neelsen stain
What are fimbriae?
fine filaments of protein
What are highly resistant dormant structures of certain gram-positive bacteria called?
endospores
Is there a metabolism in endospores?
show no detectable metabolism
What is commonly used to determine taxonomy of bacteria?
The distribution of metabolic traits
How does heterotrophic carbon metabolism occur?
organic carbon compounds are used as carbon sources
What do lithotrophs use ?
inorganic electron donors
What is sulfate-reducing bacteria accountable for?
the production of the highly toxic forms of mercury
What are hydrogen and carbon monoxide for Lithotrophic bacteria?
Common inorganic electron donors
What chemical process  helps bacteria to absorb raw materials?
diffusion
How size and reproduction are linked in bacteria?
Bacteria grow to a fixed size and then reproduce
In what environment are bacteria being cultivated in labs?
solid or liquid media
What is the simple way of producing large volume of bacteria cells?
high levels of nutrients
What is the first stage of bacteria adaptation?
lag phase
What shape is chromosome of bacteria?
circular chromosome
What makes bacteria an asexual organism?
inherit identical copies of their parent's genes
What is the aftermath of infrequent errors during intracellular assembly of virus particles?
Transduction of bacterial genes
What does transformation of bacteria depends on?
numerous bacterial gene products
Between what species do usually transduction, conjugation and transformation take place?
the same species
What are Bacteriophages?
viruses that infect bacteria
What is monotrichous?
single flagellum
How can we classify the vast variety of bacterial species?
grouping organisms based on similarities
What would original term "bacteria" determine?
all microscopic, single-cell prokaryotes
What was developed by Hans Christian  Gram?
The Gram stain
What technique has becoming more popular in classification of bacteria?
molecular methods
Why are certain bacteria called predatory?
bacteria kill and then consume other microorganisms
What helps bacteria to survive?
close spatial associations
Where do bacteria stay in soil?
rhizosphere
What are the pathogenes?
bacteria form a parasitic association with other organisms
How pathogenes interact with it's human host?
pathogen has a characteristic spectrum of interactions
What type of antibiotics called bacterocidal?
if they kill bacteria
What quality of bacteria is being widely used re-cyling?
ability of bacteria to degrade a variety of organic compounds
What sciences use bacteria?
molecular biology, genetics and biochemistry
When was the first time bacteria were observed?
1676
When was the first antibiotic discovered?
In 1910
What's the abbreviation for a printed wiring board?
PWB
In the old PCB design method, what was used to connect component pin pads?
traces
What process groups PCBs before transfer to a panel?
Panelization
What is the process called whereby the individual PCBs are separated?
depaneling
Do additive or subtractive methods use less raw materials?
additive
In the semi-additive process, what do the areas exposed by the mask become at the end?
traces
What non-professionals might use immersion etching, since it's the easiest way to make a PCB?
hobbyists
If you started with a two-sided laminate etched on either side, laminated to the top and bottom, and processed it again to get traces on the outside layers, how many layers would your final PCB have?
four
What kind of material sometimes used for drilling will lose sharpness quickly if used for PCBs?
high-speed-steel
What do the hole walls in two-layer PCBs have to be before they can be electroplated?
conductive
What happens to untreated copper that makes it difficult to solder?
oxidizes
What does OSP stand for?
organic surface protectant
What's the process whereby metal filaments are grown on or in a PCB via DC voltage?
Electrochemical migration
If part of a PCB isn't solderable, what can be used instead?
solder resist
What are bare-board tests looking for besides "opens"?
"shorts"
Surface-mount is one type of construction used in PCB assembly; what's the other one?
through-hole
What's the most frequently used test configuration procedure for ICs?
Joint Test Action Group
If a PCB is intended for use in an setting with extreme conditions, what would probably be applied?
conformal coating
What special protection are most PCBs shipped in?
antistatic bags
If a lead wasn't soldered manually, what device was used?
wave soldering machine
Which type of construction is more expensive?
Through-hole
When did surface-mount become a commonly used manufacturing process?
mid-1990s
What process is a trace left over from?
etching
What element of a laminate is designated by the cloth to resin ratio, among other things?
type designation
What's the common name of polytetrafluoroethylene?
Teflon
Along with the non-woven class, what makes up the reinforcement type materials?
woven
What's the temperature at which resin softens and expands called?
glass transition temperature
What will happen to the materials when a board gets wet or is in a humid area?
Moisture absorption
What's the minimum amount of copper a layer in a PCB can have to be considered "heavy copper"?
three ounces
What arduous aspect of the process can designers skip in Multiwire?
routing of wires
What type of construction is best for applications that need to portion space carefully?
Cordwood
Who was the German inventor who wrote in 1903 about conductors being laminated in layers to a board?
Albert Hanson
What was Paul Eisler making when he came up with the printed circuit?
a radio set
What company developed the first electronic circuit that could be mass produced and was durable enough to be fired from a gun?
Globe Union
What type of construction was originally used for all electronic components?
through-hole
How many club members are there?
The Premier League is a corporation in which the 20 member clubs act as shareholders
What date was the Premier League formed?
The competition formed as the FA Premier League on 20 February 1992
Is the Premier League the most watched football league in the world?
The Premier League is the most-watched football league in the world,
When was the low point for English football?
the late '80s had marked a low point for English football
When did the downward trend of the English Football start to turn around?
by the turn of the 1990s the downward trend was starting to reverse
How much money did the Football League receive in revenues from television money for a two year agreement in 1986?
the Football League received £6.3 million for a two-year agreement in 1986
In 1991, was a proposal for a new league postponed?
At the close of the 1991 season, a proposal was tabled
Why did Greg Dyke of London Weekend Television meet with representatives of the biggest five English football clubs in 1990?
The meeting was to pave the way for a break away from The Football League.
When did the First Division clubs resign from the Football League?
In 1992, the First Division clubs resigned from the Football League en masse
When did the Premier League hold its first season?
The league held its first season in 1992–93
What was an important feature of the Premier League in the mid-2000s?
the dominance of the so-called "Big Four" clubs: Arsenal, Chelsea, Liverpool and Manchester United
Which team finished fourth in the 2009-10 season?
In the 2009–10 season, Tottenham finished fourth and became the first team to break the top four since Everton in 2005
What was the number of clubs reduced to in 1995.
the number of clubs was reduced to 20 in 1995
How many votes does each Football Association Premier League Ltd (FAPL) club have on issues?
Each club is a shareholder, with one vote each on issues such as rule changes and contracts.
Who decides on how many Premeir League representatives there are for the European Club Association?
the number of clubs and the clubs themselves chosen according to UEFA coefficients.
When does the Premier League have its playing season?
During the course of a season (from August to May)
What will a fifth place Premier League team qualify for?
The team placed fifth in the Premier League automatically qualifies for the UEFA Europa League
Which team did not qualifty for Champions League in 2005 but was able to particpate?
UEFA gave special dispensation for Liverpool to enter the Champions League
How many times have Premier League teams have won the Champions League since 1992-2013?
Premier League clubs had won the UEFA Champions League four times
What were some of the reasons for the increased revenues in 2013-14?
the Premier League had net profits in excess of £78 million, exceeding all other football leagues
Did Swansea qualify for the Europa Leaque in 2012-13?
In 2012–13, Swansea qualified for the Europa League
Which team received permission to move to Dublin, Ireland in 1998?
in 1998, when Wimbledon received Premier League approval to relocate to Dublin, Ireland,
Who received broadcasting rights to the Premier League in 1992?
The League's decision to assign broadcasting rights to BSkyB in 1992
Do European Leagues sell their television rights per a collective level?
other European Leagues, including La Liga, in which each club sells its rights individually
How much was the amount of first five seasons of the Sky television rights?
The first Sky television rights agreement was worth £304 million over five seasons.
Why has there been a several court cases against Sky and Premier League?
The TV rights agreement between the Premier League and Sky has faced accusations of being a cartel
How much money did Premier League earn regarding television rights in 2010-13?
Television rights alone for the period 2010 to 2013 have been purchased for £1.782 billion.
What country is the Premier League the most distributed televised sports broadcast?
The Premier League is particularly popular in Asia, where it is the most widely distributed sports programme
Who broadcasts the Premier League's games in the United States?
The Premier League is broadcast in the United States through NBC Sports.
Why has their been distance between the Premier League and the Football League?
in large part to the disparity in revenue from television rights between the leagues,
If a team is relegated in the Premier League what type of tv payment do they receive?
The Premier League distributes a portion of its television revenue to clubs that are relegated from the league in the form of "parachute payments".
What was the result of their recommendation?
as a result all stadiums in the Premier League are all-seater
Are attendance remittances that important to the Premier League?
Stadium attendances are a significant source of regular income for Premier League clubs.
What are some of the every day tasks that a manager of a team has to deal with?
Managers in the Premier League are involved in the day-to-day running of the team, including the training, team selection, and player acquisition.
Which team in 1999 had a line-up for starting that was consisted of all foreign players?
On 26 December 1999, Chelsea became the first Premier League side to field an entirely foreign starting line-up,
Why did the Home Office change it rules regardin work permits in 1999?
In response to concerns that clubs were increasingly passing over young English players in favour of foreign players
When are the transfer windows?
The two transfer windows run from the last day of the season to 31 August and from 31 December to 31 January.
Have transfer fees been increasing over the past years?
The record transfer fee for a Premier League player has risen steadily over the lifetime of the competition.
Who is the Golden Boot award given to each season?
The Golden Boot is awarded to the top Premier League scorer at the end of each season.
What is the Premier League Championship trophy based on?
The design of the trophy is based on the heraldry of Three Lions that is associated with English football.
When did the Roman Republic begin?
509 BC
Who elected consuls in the Roman government?
citizens
What factor is considered by some to be the main driving force behind the expansion of Rome?
inter-state factors
After what war did the alliances start to solidify?
Second Punic War
What effect did the weakening of Ptolemaic Egypt have on nearby areas?
destabilisation
What was seen as the behind the Roman influence in the east?
crisis management
In what battle did Rome claim victory over several Latin cities in?
the Battle of Lake Regillus
When did the Battle of Allia River approximately end?
387 BC
What country did the Romans continue to expand to after Rome was sacked?
Italy
Who suffered a great amount of losses battling the Roman army?
Pyrrhus
What battles were initially complete disasters for Rome?
naval battles
What was the name of Hannibal's family member that wanted to join his army in battle?
Hasdrubal Barca
What had prevented Carthage from defending their territory from pirates?
Treaties
What kingdom sent an ambassador to Italy in an attempt to form an alliance against Rome?
Macedonia
What was declared by the Romans now that the Philip had been defeated?
"Peace of the Greeks"
Who had now been appointed as a military advisor to the emperor of Seleucid?
Hannibal
Which town in Italy now housed a large Roman garrison?
Sicily
In what year did Philip pass away?
179 BC
How many republics was the Kingdom of Macedonia splintered into?
four client republics
What war is considered to be the last Roman pacification in Northern Africa?
The Jugurthine War
When did the Cimbrian War end?
101 BC
How were soldiers rewarded by Roman generals?
with plunder
How many slaves at most were under the command of Spartacus?
150,000
What type of war was caused by the clash of two generals?
civil wars
Who was the leader of Pontus in the year 85 BC?
Mithridates the Great
Who held  a term as praetor in the Iberian Peninsula?
Julius Caesar
When was the invasion of the Parthian Empire begun?
53 BC
During what year did Caesar's armies cross the river Rubicon?
49 BC
Who was now considered to be the primary figure in the Roman state?
Caesar
What failure caused the the flares of civil war to spark up again?
Second Triumvirate of Octavian
Who would elect a king in the Roman Kingdom prior to the revolution?
senators
In what year was the city in conflict with two nearby tribes?
494 BC
What year were limits placed upon plebeians that prevented them from holding more than one office concurrently?
342 BC
In what year was the Plebiscitum Ovinium initiative enacted?
before 312 BCE
What was the economic status of your typical plebeian in 287 BC?
poor
Which group of people were now considered to be politically equal with the plebeians?
patricians
What years did no important political changes happen during?
287 BC and 133 BC
What had caused citizens to vacate their farms?
long military campaigns
To what position was Tiberius Gracchus elected?
tribune
In what year was Gaius elected to office?
123 BC
Who was the illegitimate offspring of the King Micipsa of Numidia?
Jugurtha
In what year was a Roman army dispatched to terminate the King of Pontus?
88 BC
How many years was normal to span between offices prior to the populares controlling the city?
ten-year interval
Where in the year 77 BC was an uprising?
Spain
When did the movement that considered the use of peaceful means to solve the plight of lesser classes begin?
Around 66 BC
In which year would Julius Caesar hope to be elected to the position of consul?
59 BC
Who had tried to prevent the enactment of the laws that Caesar had proposed?
Bibulus
Who was responsible for the attacks on followers of Pompey?
Clodius
In which year did Clodius die?
52 BC
In Rome during this time who was considered to hold both the dictatorship and the position of the tribunate?
Caesar
On what date was Caesar killed?
March 15, 44 BC
Who was soon allied with Caesar's adopted son following his death?
Mark Antony
Who in Rome was responsible for imposing tribute on nations that they had conquered?
Rome's military
Who introduced the phalanx formation into Rome's army?
Servius Tullius
What was a detriment of using the phalanx formation?
only effective when fighting in large, open spaces
How many horseman were likely to be found in a single manipular legion?
300 horsemen
Where did Rome receive half of their army from?
the Socii
During what century did Roman controlled areas see a decline in their populations?
2nd century BC
Who was now able to join military service in 107 BC?
all citizens
Around how many units could be expected to be contained within a cohort?
480 infantrymen
In which sea was a large amount of naval vessels sent in order to remove Cilician pirates?
Mediterranean Sea
What was the general source of the Roman senate's authority?
the esteem and prestige of the senators
What was the main requirement of seeking a trial in the Roman courts?
legal status of Roman citizenship
What Roman assembly elected both magistrates and censors?
Comitia Centuriata
How many tribes were considered to be in the Comitia Tributa?
35 tribes
Who had the right to grant powers to a magistrate?
People of Rome
How long concurrently could an elected magistrate serve in office?
one-year
Which official had supremacy in both civil and military matters?
Consuls
How long could a dictator be appointed for in times of certain emergencies?
six months
Where did the bulk of the cities populace live?
the city center
What culture did Rome have an extreme amount of influence on?
European cultures
Around what percentage of the Roman populace were thought to be slaves?
over 25%
What article of clothing could generally be found on a male Roman?
a toga
When were the staple foods in the Roman republic typically eaten at?
11 o'clock
What beverage was consumed by all the classes in the Roman Republic?
Wine
How did Romans develop their male children as Roman citizens?
physical training
What was the primary language of the Romans?
Latin
Who was responsible for massively affecting Roman literature?
Greek authors
What was considered to be dominant part of normal life?
Music
What was a primary cause of the modification of Roman architectural elements?
urban requirements changed
What was the name of the area in which youth played and exercised?
Campus Martius
When did the Roman religion that is generally identified with the republic first established? 
around 500 BC
When do most people believe the Pacific War began?
early December 1941
What events ended the war with Japan?
atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki
By what name was the war with Japan referred?
Greater East Asia War
What role did Thailand play in the war?
temporary alliance
Did the U.S. believe that Thailand was an Axis ally?
not an ally
Where did many of Japan's soldiers come from?
Korea and Formosa
Did Mexico play a part in the war?
took part
What incident occured on July 7, 1937?
Marco Polo Bridge Incident
Who controled Indochina in 1940?
Vichy France
Why did the Chinese ultimately fail in its counter offensives?
low military-industrial capacity
Who was the leader of the Nationalist government?
Chiang Kai-shek
Which Japanese Admiral felt it was necessary to go to war with the U.S.?
Sankichi Takahashi
What were these embargoes called by the Japanese media?
"ABCD ("American-British-Chinese-Dutch")
What would Japan accomplish by peace after their early victories?
recognize Japanese hegemony in Asia.
How many U.S. battleships were incapacitated in the Pearl Harbor attacks?
eight
What program allowed America to sell military supplies to Britain and the Soviet Union?
Lend-Lease
What date was the first official use of the term United Nations?
1 January 1942
What islands did Japan invade?
Solomon Islands
When did the Chinese attack Burma?
March 1942
How many Australian divisions steamed from the Mid-East for Singapore?
Two
Who ordered General MacArthur to make a defense plan with Australia?
President Franklin Roosevelt
What American president was a member of the Pacific War Council?
President Franklin D. Roosevelt
What American carrier joined the USS Yorktown to stop the Japanese attack on Port Moresby in 1942?
USS Lexington
In Yamamoto's plan, what northern islands were to be attacked?
Aleutian Islands
When did the Japanese fleet arrive off Midway?
4 June
At what altitude did the American dive bombers commence their attck on the Japanese carriers?
10,000 feet
What mountains did the Australian battalions fight a rearguard action over on the Kokoda Track?
Owen Stanley Ranges
Where were most of the Japanese aircraft in the South Pacific redeployed to defend?
Guadalcanal
Where were the 40th, 3rd, and 6th divisions massed at in China?
Yueyang
What Allied command replaced the British India Command in August, 1943?
South East Asia Command
What did the United States turn it's industry to in the two years folloing the Battle of Midway?
increased numbers of ships, planes, and trained aircrew
What did submarines sinking Japanese ships do?
strangled Japan
What percentage of Japanese merchantmen were sunk by U.S. submarines?
56%
What doctrine did Roosevelt give for submarines against Japan?
unrestricted submarine warfare
What doctrine stated that only fleet battles could win naval campaigns?
Imperial Japanese Navy
What did the US Navy rely on?
commerce raiding
When did the US Navy begin to use it's submarines to maximum effect?
1944
What was the code name for the mid-1944 offensive across China?
Operation Ichi-Go
What command prepared offensives into Burma after the Allied setbacks in 1943?
South East Asia command
What month did the Japanese launch an offensive into India?
March
What happened to Mutaguchi's troops?
starved
What battle was the advance in the Arakan halted to release troops for?
Battle of Imphal
What was it imperative for the Japanese to hold?
Saipan
How many of Ozawa's submarines were sunk by American destroyers?
17
On what day did U.S> planes located Ozawa's fleet?
second
What is argued to be the largest naval battle in history?
Battle of Leyte Gulf
Who would enter Leyte Gulf to attack the Allied landing forces?
V. Adm. Takeo Kurita
How many battleships were in Kurita's "Center Force"?
five
How many battleships were in Nishimura's force?
two
When did the allies spot Ozawa's "Northern Force"?
16:40 on 24 October
When did Kurita pass through the San Bernardino Strait?
03:00 on 25 October
What were the Leyte beachheads of the U.S. Sixth Army secured from?
attack from the sea
When did the U.S. Sixth Army land on the eastern shore of Leyte?
20 October 1944
Landings were made on the beaches of what island on December 15, 1944?
Mindoro
What island was between Borneo and Mindoro?
Palawan
What was "Operation Detachment"?
battle of Iwo Jima
How many miles of hidden tunnel were on the island?
11
When did Iwo Jima come under bombardment?
mid-June 1944
What marine regiment reached the summit of Mount Suribachi?
28th
What was the capital of Burma?
Rangoon
How many British and Australian prisoners survived out of about 2500 around Sandakan?
six
In 1945, how many years had Japan already been at war with China?
seven
How many B-29 bombers were airbases need for in Okinawa?
3,000
What percent of Japanese troops died on Okinawa?
94
Who was over the new U.S. Strategic Air Forces in the Pacific command?
General Curtis LeMay
America dropped what on August 6, 1945?
atomic bomb
When did the soviet Union invade Manchukuo?
9 August 1945
How did the Japanese refer to the atomic bombings and the Soviet invasion?
"Twin Shocks"
What date does Japan consider the end of the Pacific War?
14 August
How many women are believed to have been sexual slaves for the Japenese Army?
200,000
About how many Australians were taken prisoner after the fall of Singapore and British Malaya?
15,000
Richmond is located at what line of the James river?
the fall line
Richmond was an important city of what confederacy? 
the Powhatan Confederacy
What things are important to the economy of Richmond?
law, finance, and government, with federal, state, and local governmental agencies
What year did Patrick Henry give his speech?
1775
What is the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom?
the basis for the separation of church and state
What man-made body of water was designed in part by George Washington?
James River and Kanawha Canal
On what date was Virginia's secession from the Union?
17 April 1861
What was the name of the biggest factory in the Confederate States of America?
Tredegar Iron Works
Where was Petersburg located in relation to Ford Stedman?
east
What was contained in warehouses that were notably burned by Confederates when evacuating Richmond?
tobacco
What was the date before the day Lincoln entered Richmond?
April 3
What mode of transportation took over from the canals?
railroads
When the 1900s began, how many people lived in Richmond?
85,050
When did the so-called downtown boom in Richmond end?
1965
How many square kilometers is Richmond?
160
What neighborhood is located in between Church and Shockoe Hill?
Shockoe Bottom
The neighborhood of Newtowne West is north of what street?
Broad
What name is given to the part of Richmond located to the south of the James?
Southside
What is Richmond's Köppen climate classification?
Cfa
What season in Richmond is most likely to see periods of dryness?
autumn
What is the most likely month for the James to flood Richmond?
March
In 2000, how many families lived in Richmond?
43,627
What crime notably increased in Richmond over the course of the 1980s?
murder
What is the oldest Presbyterian church in Richmond?
First Presbyterian Church
Along with Chabad of Virginia, what is the other Orthodox synagogue in Richmond?
Keneseth Beth Israel
Where did Richmond's Nation of Islam members initially meet?
Temple #24
How many Indian-descended families lived in or around Richmond in 2011?
6,000
What federal court is located in Richmond?
United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit
How many square meters of space does Virginia BioTechnology Research Park consist of?
53,400
What periodical called Richmond "The Next Great American Food City"?
Departures magazine
What movie, which filmed in Richmond, featured Daniel Day-Lewis?
Lincoln
According to MarketWatch, where did Richmond rank among cities for business?
third
Where is SunTrust Bank headquartered?
Atlanta
What architectural style was the 1919 Broad Street Union Station constructed in?
neoclassical
In what former industrial facility is the Richmond National Battlefield Park Visitors Center located?
Tredegar Iron Works
What office was held by the inhabitant of the John Marshall House?
Chief Justice of the United States
What was the nickname of Bill Robinson?
Bojangles
What notable project was funded by Richmond's "admissions tax"?
CentreStage
Along with Hamilton Glass and El Kamino, who is a mural artist local to Richmond?
Nils Westergard
In what city did Lewis Hallam present Shakespeare's plays?
Williamsburg
What disaster destroyed many of the early buildings in Richmond?
Evacuation Fire
What state has the oldest capital building used continuously since it was built?
Maryland
What architectural style was used to design Branch House?
Tudor
What United States city has the most cast iron architecture?
New Orleans
Who was the designer of the Federal Reserve Building?
Minoru Yamasaki
What Native American tribe at one time lived on Belle Isle?
Powhatan
What part of Richmond is Maymont close to?
Fan District
What sport do the Washington Redskins play?
Football
When did the RIR begin to host the Capital City 400?
1962
What company owns the company that owns the Richmond Times-Dispatch?
Berkshire Hathaway
Per Nielsen, how many homes exist in the Richmond-Petersburg DMA?
553,950
How many representatives make up the Richmond city council?
nine
What is A. Carl Prince's religious affiliation?
Baptist
How many high schools are there in Richmond?
eight
What type of university is the University of Richmond?
private
How many kilometers away from Richmond is Richmond International Airport?
11
What is the street address if the Greyhound bus terminal in Richmond?
2910 N Boulevard
What counties does the GRTC link to Richmond?
Henrico, and Chesterfield
What station services all southern rail traffic passing through Richmond?
Staples Mill Road Station
Who is Richmond's electricity supplier?
Dominion Virginia Power
How many kilometers of sewer lines exist in Richmond?
61
Which city in Mexico does San Diego border?
Tijuana
Who claimed the San Diego Bay area for Spain in 1542?
Juan Rodríguez Cabrillo
Who was sent to survey the California coast in 1602?
Sebastián Vizcaíno
Who did Junipero Serra commission to found the Mission San Diego de Alcala in 1769?
Franciscan friars
Who was elected as the Mission's first municipal magistrate?
Juan María Osuna
Who commissioned Captain Archibald Gillespie to lead 50 men on horseback to the north?
Commodore Robert F. Stockton
What treaty was used by Stockton and Kearny on January 1, 1847?
Treaty of Cahuenga
In what year did San Diego officially become a city?
1850
What was the main flaw of San Diego's original location?
several miles away from navigable water
What park in San Diego hosted two World Fairs near the beginning of the 20th century?
Balboa Park
What names was given to coastal artillery batteries erected shortly after 1852?
Fort Rosecrans
When did San Diego's population grow so rapidly that it nearly doubled?
during and after World War II
What nickname was San Diego given by the tuna canning industry in the 1970s?
the tuna capital of the world
In what direction does the San Diego River run through the city?
east to west
What community covers the area from Downtown San Diego to the peninsula?
Point Loma
What was the first skyscraper built in San Diego that was over 300-feet tall?
El Cortez Hotel
When does San Diego receive most of its precipitation?
between December and March
What areas experience the most significant temperature variations?
inland areas
What is the average rainfall in February along the coast?
2 inches (51 mm)
What trees are protected along the coast of San Diego?
Torrey pine
How many bird species have been observed in San Diego?
492
When did California's largest wildfire of the century take place?
October 2003
In the top five largest urban areas in California, where does San Diego rank?
third-largest
What was the population density of San Diego in 2009?
3,771.9 people per square mile (1,456.4/km2)
In what year was the household median income in San Diego at $45,733?
2000
What regional planning agency offers graphs and tables of census information for San Diego?
SANDAG
What percentage of the population fell below the poverty line in San Diego in 2005?
14.6%
What type of tours attract a large number of visitors to San Diego?
beer tours
Where is San Diego's border crossing?
the San Ysidro neighborhood at the San Ysidro Port of Entry
Why is San Diego known as an iHub Innovation Center?
for collaboration potentially between wireless and life sciences
What institution has contributed to the growth of fuel biotechnology?
University of California
What museum has a branch at the Santa Fe Depot?
Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego (MCASD)
Who is the director of the San Diego Symphony? 
Jahja Ling
What tournament used to be known as the Buick Invitational?
Farmers Insurance Open
How many employees are there in San Diego for every 137 residents?
one
Who votes in the city's attorney and mayor?
voters of the entire city
What two members of city council were convicted of extortion in 2005?
Ralph Inzunza and Deputy Mayor Michael Zucchet
Why was Mayor Bob Filner asked to resign?
allegations of repeated sexual harassment
What happened to the crime rate in San Diego between 1990 and 2000?
San Diego had a declining crime rate from 1990 to 2000
Which television station began broadcasting  on May 16, 1949?
KFMB
How many duopolies does the Mexico side of San Diego-Tijuana have?
two
What is another name Free Radio San Diego is known by?
Pirate Radio San Diego
What major interstate runs from Tijuana to Los Angeles?
Interstate 8
What highway connects the I-805 with the downtown area?
SR 94
In what year was San Diego rated as the country's best densely populated city for cycling?
2006
What areas of San Diego are primarily served by the trolley?
downtown and surrounding urban communities
What is the more popular name of Lindbergh Field?
San Diego International Airport (SAN)
What is the name given to the highly congested spot where Interstates 5 and 805 meet?
The Merge
Islamic World is another way to refer to what?
Muslim world
When did the Islamic Golden age start?
622
What type of ceramic art was popular from the 8th to the 18th century in the art of Islam?
glazed ceramics
What is the most widely known fictional work from the Islamic world?
One Thousand and One Nights
Layla and Majnun is an example of what kind of poetry?
Arabic poetry and Persian poetry
What is another name for Ibn Tufail?
Abubacer
What was the life span of Ibn al-Nafis?
1213–1288
Which year did a translation of Philosophus Autodidactus in Latin come to be?
1671
In what year was Kitab al-Miraj likely translated into Latin?
in 1264 or shortly before
What was the life span of Ibn Sina?
980–1037
Which philosopher from the Muslim world influenced modern philosophy?
Ibn Tufail
Which philosopher of the Muslim world is considered an important author of work on evolution?
al-Jahiz
Ibn al-Haytham experimented with what around the year 1000?
optics
What work is Mansur ibn Muhammad ibn al-Faqih Ilyas known for writing?
Tashrih al-badan (Anatomy of the body)
What field did Muḥammad ibn Jābir al-Ḥarrānī al-Battānī contribute to?
astronomy
which crops were brought to europe from the Muslim World?
almonds and citrus fruit
How early did people in the Muslim World start using watermills?
7th century
What percentage of the humans in the world are considered Muslim?
20%
Which Muslim denominations are the most dominant?
Sunni and Shia
What is the literacy rate in Kuwait?
over 97%
Which organization for scientific publications was established in Pakistan in 2002?
Higher Education Commission
What is considered the most important work of Islamic architecture?
the mosque
Why is depicting God forbidden in the Islamic world?
such artistic depictions may lead to idolatry
What is the repetitive use of geometric floral designs known as in Islamic art?
arabesque
What are the main distinctive features of Islamic architecture?
ordered repetition, radiating structures, and rhythmic, metric patterns
What is another name for the Shamsi Hijri calender?
The Solar Hijri calendar
How many Muslim nations require women to cover their legs, shoulders, or whole body?
a small minority
Which country borders Iran to Iran's northwest?
Armenia
What civilizations formed in Iran during 3200-2800 BC?
the Proto-Elamite and Elamite kingdoms
What year did the Rashidun Arabs invade Iran?
633 AD
What resource does Iran have the largest supply of in the world?
natural gas
What century did terms referencing Iran begin to be recorded?
3rd-century
Which historians referred to Iran as Persis?
Greek historians
When did Reza Shan request that Iran officially be referred to as Iran and not Persia?
1935
How long ago were the earliest artifacts from that were evidence of humans in Iran?
the Lower Paleolithic era, c. 800,000–200,000 BC
What ancient city dates back as early as 4395 BC in Iran?
Susa
Who dominated the area of Irea between the 10th Century BC to the late 7th Century BC?
the Assyrian Empire
Who founded the Achaemenid Empire when the city states in Iran came together in unification?
Cyrus the Great
What was the first world goverment the world had seen at the time it existed?
the Achaemenid Empire
The Achaemenid Empire was the known enemy of what nation's histories during its existence?
the Greek city states
Who invaded the Archaemenid Empire in 334BC?
Alexander the Great
What wars in the 600s CE lead to the weakening of Iran and a subsequent invasion by the Arabs?
Byzantine-Sassanid Wars
What period was known for an era where Iranian civilization blossomed and peaked?
the Islamic Golden Age
What tribes migranted en masse to the Iranian plateau in the 10th Century?
Turkic tribes
Who established an Ilkhanate in Iran after the break up of the Mongol Empire in 1256?
Hulagu Khan
Who established the Safavid Dynasty?
Ismail I from Ardabil
What Empire neighbored and had a rivalry with Safavid Iran?
Ottoman Empire
Who drove out the Pashtuns from Iran in 1729?
Nader Shah
Whose death in 1779 led to a civil war in Iran?
Karim Khan
What wars resulted in Iran losing control of the Caucasus to the Russians?
the 19th century Russo-Persian wars
When did a series of protests over foreign concessions sales in Iran occur?
Between 1872 and 1905
The constitutional movement in Iran lasted from 1906 until what year?
until 1911
When was Reza Shah forced to abdicate in Iran?
1941
What year did oil price spikes in Iran lead to inflation?
1973
The new Iranian government following the Shah's downfall dealt with the Kurdish rebellion in what year?
1979
Who seized the US Embassy in Iran in 1979?
a group of students
Who invaded Iran in 1980?
the Iraqi army
What latitudes does Iran lie between?
24° and 40° N
Iran's landscape is dominated by what geographical feature?
rugged mountain ranges
Iran's climate along its Capsian coast and northen forests is?
subtropical
In Iran's western Zagros Basin, temperatures do not exceed what level during the summer?  
38 °C (100.4 °F)
The Iranian Parliament does not demand environmental impact studies before approving what projects?
large national development projects
What is the sixth most populous city of Iran?
Shiraz
The Iranina Islamic Republic is based on what document?
the 1979 Constitution
In Iran, who has the final say in all matters directly related to the Supreme Leader?
the Supreme Leader
How many jurists are in the Guardian Council?
twelve jurists
When crimes are committed by clerics, who handles the cases?
The Special Clerical Court
Iran's nuclear program has caused discord within the international community since when?
Since 2005
What is Iran's volunteer militia force named?
the Basij
What is Iran's most advanced missile?
The Fajr-3 (MIRV)
By 2007, Iran's crude oil exports resulted in how much of its foreign exchange currency?
$70 billion
What is a main goal of Iran's market reform plans?
diversify Iran's oil-reliant economy
How much was 1 US Dollar worth in Iranian Rials in early 2012?
16,000
What does Teheran, Isfahan, Mashhad, and Shiraz have in common?
the most popular tourist destinations
How much natural gas reserves does Iran have?
33.6 trillion cubic metres
When did Iran open its first wind-powered plants?
2004
Which Iranian scientist co-invented the first gas laser?
Ali Javan
What is Iran's presumed largest ethnic group?
Persians
What other branch of Islam is recognized by the Iranian government?
Sunni branch
What were the first known examples of Iranian visual art? 
the bas-reliefs of Persepolis
What decade was significant to Iranian film?
1960s
Which director led off a new age of Iranian film after the 1979 Revolution?
Khosrow Sinai
When did the Internet arrive in Iran?
1993
In Iranian cuisine, what is habitually used with fruits? 
Herbs
Iran has the highest population of what group in the world?
Azerbaijanis
What melon is Iran a Top 5 producer in the world in 2012?
watermelons
The Achaemind Empire along with what other group became the foundation for the art in later Iranian history?
The Median
What is two islands that are part of the British Isles?
Great Britain, Ireland
What is the age of the oldest rocks in the north western part of Scotland?
2,700 million years old
Which is one of the tribes that spoke Insular Celtic?
Pictish (northern Britain)
Why is the name the British Isles disputed in Ireland?
association of the word British
Where did the first known occurrence of the British Isle name appear in written material?
writings of sea-farers
What did name did Claudius Ptolemy (Greco-Egyptian scientist) use for Ireland?
little Britain (μικρής Βρεττανίας - mikris Brettanias)
What is the earliest English usage of the term Brytish Illes?
a work by John Dee
When did the Caledonian Orogeny occur?
c. 488–444 Ma and early Silurian period
What was the most recent glaciation that has shaped the British Isles?
Devensian
What is the longest river in Ireland?
the Shannon
Which continent has similar plant and animal life as the British Isles?
European continent
When did the clearing of swamp land and forests begin in the British Isles?
around 6000 BC
Which two animals became extinct in the British Isles?
wolf, bear
Which snakes are considered native to the British Isles but not Ireland?
European adder, the grass snake and the smooth snake
Which area in the British Isles is s the most populated?
England
Which two areas in the British Isles hasn't experienced a large population growth in the last one hundred years?
Scotland and Wales
How many groups do these languages belong to?
six groups
What mainland was the British Isles once connected to?
European mainland
The people that lived in the British Isles during the Roman Empire era spoke which language?
Celtic dialects of the Insular Celtic group
Which people arrived in the British Isles when the Roman Empire's power was diminishing?
Anglo-Saxons
When did Viking invasions begin in the British Isles?
9th century
Since the Norman invasion who had feudal possession of Ireland?
the Pope
Which crown did the King of Scotland inherit in 1603?
Crown of England
In what year was the Kingdom of Great Britain founded?
1707
What are the names of the two states that are sovereign in the British Isles today?
Ireland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
Which state send members to the parliament in Edinburgh?
Scotland
The United Kingdom is part of what union?
European Union (EU)
What are the two exceptions to the voting rights in United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Irelandand Britain?
presidential elections and constitutional referendums
What has caused several uncommon arrangements between the various states in the United Kingdom?
The Northern Ireland Peace Process
What was one of organizations that was founded because of the Good Friday Agreement?
British–Irish Council
Does the Parliamentary Assembly had any kinds of legislative authority?
no
What types of media give the people of Ireland information about what is going on in Britain?
British television, newspapers and magazines
What are some of the minor sports in the United Kingdom?
croquet, bowls, pitch and putt
The Irish Sea tunnel was first purposed in what year?
1895
What Museum has a vase with an image of an episkyros player?
National Archaeological Museum of Athens
What year did the Football Association arrange The Laws of the Game?
1863
What century does football in England date back to?
eighth century AD
Which rules were influential to the codes of association football?
Cambridge Rules
What is the only position specified by the Laws of the Game
goalkeeper
What year did the Football Association form?
1863
What is C.W. Alcock responsible for founding?
FA Cup
What does the abbreviation IFAB stand for?
International Football Association Board
In 2006, which team helps secure a truce during a civil war?
Côte d'Ivoire
What decade is considered the "golden age" of women's football?
1920s
What would you describe the shape of the football?
spherical
When is it okay for regular players to use their hands?
throw-in restart
Who guards the goal?
goalkeeper
How many laws are there in the official Laws of the Game?
17
Out of the maximum amount of players allowed, one must be a what?
goalkeeper
The equipment a player wears is also called a what?
kit
Imperial units where once used to express the dimensions of a what?
football pitch
What is the range for the length for international matches in meters?
100–110 m
What is the penalty area marked by?
goal line
How many periods are in a standard football match?
two
Matches where a winner must be decided is called what type of competitions?
knockout
What is the golden goal?
the first goal in extra time
Which card does a referee use to signal a caution to a player?
yellow card
Players who are sent off in a game are often faced with what?
mandatory suspensions
Which year was there not a Summer Olympic Game?
1932
What does UEFA Stand for?
European Championship
What do teams gain for doing well throughout the season?
points
What is one who replaces a player during a game called?
substitutes
Who were the British monarchs of the House of Hanover from August 1714 to June 1830?
George I, George II, George III, and George IV
What classical architecture is Georgian architecture based on?
Greece and Rome
During the period of Georgian architecture what did landowners turn into?
property developers
What high sounding title was adopted by anyone who could get away with it?
architect
What style did Georgian succeed?
English Baroque
What are the whimsical alternatives of Palladian architecture?
Gothic and Chinoiserie
Georgian architecture is characterized by?
its proportion and balance
What revived style dominated English country house architecture?
Palladian
What tax was in force throughout the United Kingdom during this time?
window tax
What was often used to hide functional parts of buildings?
trees
Where could sometimes overwhelming ornament be found?
Inside ornament
Most town people lived in what type of houses?
terraced houses
What shape and size did most town terraced houses take on?
tall and narrow
What cities contest to being the original home of the semi?
Blackheath, Chalk Farm and St John's Wood
What act spurred to building of new churches in Britain?
Church Building Act of 1818
Somerset House was designed by whom?
Sir William Chambers
American buildings in the Georgian period were frequently constructed of which materials?
wood with clapboards
What style did was little represented in British colonies?
Baroque
What year did Georgian architecture begin to be abandoned?
1840
What was the revival of Georgian style in twentieth century United States called?
Colonial Revival
The British revival of Georgian architecture in the 20th century is generally referred to as?
Neo-Georgian
How did the republic of liberia begin?
as a settlement of the American Colonization Society (ACS)
How long did william tubman rule?
27 year
What empire was o the decline on 1375?
Western Sudanic Mali Empire
What is "the american colonization society"?
a movement to resettle American free blacks and freed slaves in Africa.
African  Americans were sent to the pepper coast to do what?
establish a colony for freed African Americans.
The americo-liberians did not identify with who?
indigenous peoples they encountered,
Who was responsible for the death of William R. Tolbert?
a military coup led by Master Sergeant Samuel Doe of the Krahn ethnic group
What eventually happened to the rebels?
split into various factions fighting one another.
What is "Movement For democracy in Liberia"?
a second rebel group,
The 2005 elections were known as what?
the most free and fair in Liberian history
How many counties is liberia divided into?
fifteen
What is the legislature composed of? 
the Senate and the House of Representatives
What is Liberia's highest judicial authority? 
Supreme Court
What was liberia's score on the 2010 Corruption Perceptions index?
3.3
What is the central bank of Liberia responsible for?
printing and maintaining the Liberian dollar
When did the Liberian economy hit it's peak growth?
1979
What were UN sanctions place placed on 2003?
Liberian timber exports
Liberia has the highest ratio of what?
of foreign direct investment to GDP in the world
What is the largest ethnic group in liberia?
The Kpelle
There is high percentage of interracial marriage between what two groups?
Liberians and the Lebanese
What is Liberia's education system hampered by?
inadequate schools and supplies, as well as a lack of qualified teachers.
What is the name of the hospital in Monrova?
John F. Kennedy Medical Center
What arts does Liberia have a rich history of?
textile arts and quilting
Who are Windows main operating system competitors?
Android and iOS
What about Windows 8 was well received?
its performance improvements, security enhancements, and improved support for touchscreen devices
Who is Windows division president?
Steven Sinofsky
What does BSoD stand for?
Blue Screen of Death
What 3 versions of the build did Microsoft first release?
standard 32-bit and 64-bit versions, plus a special 64-bit version which included SDKs and developer tools
When was the beta version of Windows 8 made available to the public?
February 29, 2012
When was the Release Preview revealed to consumers?
May 31, 2012
When did Windows 8 manufacturing begin?
August 1, 2012
How many things did Microsoft alter after Release Preview?
Relatively few
How much money was allocated to advertise Windows 8?
$1.5–1.8 billion
When was the first game of the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals?
June 12, 2013
What happens during Hybrid Boot mode?
hibernates the Windows kernel on shutdown to speed up the subsequent boot
What replaced the Windows Explorer comman bar?
a ribbon
What is the point of using different colors on a heat map?
indicating the level of resource usage
What new security features did Windows 8 provide?
PINs and picture passwords
How does secure boot help avert boot process infections?
uses a public-key infrastructure to verify the integrity of the operating system
What is SkyDrive?
cloud storage service
What forms is Internet Exploer 10 available as?
a desktop program and a touch-optimized app
What does airplone mode do?
disable all wireless connectivity
Who is Jensen Harris?
Microsoft developer
What programming languages does Windows Runtime work with?
C, C++, Visual Basic .NET, C#, along with HTML5 and JavaScript
Where can Windows 8 install apps from?
Windows Store
What does immersive app stand for?
the apps prior to the first official presentation of Windows 8
What code did Windows 8 change to?
API code instead of WinRT
Which two browsers promised to develop Metro-style versions of their browsers?
Chrome and Firefox
What is found on the Start Screen?
a customizable array of tiles linking to various apps and desktop programs
What is charms?
A vertical toolbar
Why was the ability to play DVD-Video taken off of Windows Media Player?
the cost of licensing the necessary decoders
What backup element is still found on Windows 8?
Backup and Restore
Why did Microsoft decrease the required resoultion for tablets?
to allow "greater design flexibility" for future products
How many Windows 8 editions are there?
three
During it's launch how much was a Windows 8 upgrade?
$39.99 online, or $69.99 for retail box
What restrictions do Windows upgrade licenses have?
require an existing version of Windows to install
What replaced Windows 8?
Windows 8.1
What architecture types does Windows 8 support?
32-bit and 64-bit
What Windows version is compatible with ARM processors?
Windows RT
Who condemned Microsoft for requiring devices to have secure boot enabled by default?
free software supporters
Who criticized Microsofts closed platform Windows Store?
video game developers
Who equated windos 8 as the first desktop operating system that understand what a computer is supposed to do?
David Pierce
What makes the Windows 8 interface difficult to use?
the lack of instructions provided by the operating system on the functions accessed through the user interface
What is IDC?
market research firm
What percent of tablets were running Windows in Q1 2013/
7.4
What changes did Microsoft make to its certification requirements in March 2013?
amended its certification requirements to allow tablets to use the 1024×768 resolution as a minimum
When did Microsoft make the existence of Windows 8.1 with Bing OEM SKU official?
May 23, 2014
When did the Chinese government ban the purchase of Windows 8 products?
May 2014
What does CCTV stand for?
China Central Television
When was Windows 8.1 introduced?
May 14, 2013
What search engine was added in Windows 8.1?
Bing-based unified search system
How wide is Swaziland in miles??
81 mi
What is the per capita GDP of Swaziland?
$9,714
What is the literal translation of Nkhosi?
king
In what year did the British take Swaziland on as a protectorate? 
1903
When did the Swaziland constitution come to be?
November 1963
In what year was the constitution of Swaziland suspended?
1973
Who appoints the prime minister of Swaziland?
The king
How many seats are in the Senate of Swaziland?
30 seats
When did people begin to disputre royal hegenomy in Swaziland?
the early seventies
How does a nominee for parliament in Swaziland get decided?
a show of hand
How many representatives does each tinkhundla elect to the Swazi House of Assembly?
one
What nation is to the east of Swaziland?
Mozambique
What portion of the Swazi population are subsistence farmers?
About 75%
What has the Real growth in GDP since 2001 in Swaziland in percentage?
2.8%
What amount of total public spending in Swaziland is going to wages?
55%
Which nations economy is Swaziland most linked with?
South Africa
What currency is Swaziland bound to?
South African Rand
What percentage of the Swazi population are Christian?
83%
Of pregnant women, how many are believed to be infected with HIV?
38.8%
What age attends pre-school in Swaziland?
5-year or younger
How many years does a student spend in secondary and high school in Swaziland?
five
The University of Swaziland, Southern Nazarene University, offer higher learning in Swaziland, what is one other University?
Swaziland Christian University
Which school is the main location for technical education in Swaziland?
Swaziland College of Technology
In terms of education in Swaziland what does the acronym SIMPA represent?
Swaziland Institute of Management and Public Administration
In Swaziland, what is kwetfwasa?
training of the Sangoma
What is the most widely known event in Swazi culture?
Umhlanga Reed Dance.
Until what date was Swaziland bound by umchwasho?
19 August 2005
What Latin word does the English word translation come from?
translatio
How much has translation changed since antiquity?
hardly
What have translators tried to preserve?
context itself
A greater ratio of metaphrase to paraphrase can be used translating when there as been greater what between languages?
contact and exchange
How long has a translator's part in bridging values between cultures been discussed?
at least since Terence
When it comes to translation, what is less commonly used today?
earlier approaches
When did translation of material into Arabic begin to increase?
5th century
Why are Arabic translation efforts important to Western translation traditions?
centuries of close contacts and exchanges
What transformed Arabic languages?
movement to translate English and European texts
What two countries divvied up the Middle East's countries after WWI?
Britain and France
Where do many non-transparent translation theories delve for concepts?
German Romanticism
What is sometimes used to check the accuracy of a translation?
Comparison of a back-translation with the original text
Who provided a humorous example of the unreliability of back-translation? 
Mark Twain
What do researchers use back-translation to try to reconstruct when a document survives only in translation?
the original text
What has served as a school of writing for many authors?
Translation
What roles have interpreters occasionally played in history?
crucial
What type of translation is favored by those wanting more accurate translations?
Web-based human translation
Unedited machine translation will miss what crucial aspect of human language?
context-embedded
Where did Buddhism spread?
Asia
Who attempted a large-scale effort at translation?
Arabs
What was the first great English translation?
Wycliffe Bible
Whose court did Pletho arrive in and begin a new period of translation in Renaissance Italy?
Cosimo de' Medici
What was the guiding ideal of translators throughout the 18th century?
ease of reading
What new standards of translation came with the 19th century?
accuracy and style
What is the translation of text that is sung closely linked to?
poetry
How is translation of sung texts different than translations of poetry?
more restrictive
Who can translations of a sung text aid?
audiences, singers and conductors
What is one of the first known instances of translation in the West?
rendering of the Old Testament into Greek
During the Protestant Reformation, what local languages was the bible translated into?
European
What is an aerodome with facilities for flights to take off and land?
airport
What does ATC stand for?
air traffic control
How many commercial airports did the British Airports Authority originally operate?
eight
What do landside areas include?
parking lots, public transportation train stations and access roads
Most major airports provide commercial outlets for what?
products and services
What are some services that are offered by VIP services?
express check-in and dedicated check-in counters
For seamless connection of multimodal transport, where are many large airports located?
near railway trunk routes
It is common for airports to provide moving walkways and what?
buses
What is generally agreed to be the world's oldest continually operating airfield?
College Park Airport
Following the war, why did some military airfields add civil facilities?
for handling passenger traffic
When was the first lighting used on an airport?
latter part of the 1920s
Why did airport construction boom during the 1960s?
increase in jet aircraft traffic
What does ATC stand for?
air traffic control
What is responsible for directing all ground traffic in designated areas?
Ground Control
Who controls aircraft on the runway?
Tower Control
What is a traffic pattern often called outside of the U.S.?
traffic pattern
Traffic patterns are usually flown at what altitude above ground level?
800 or 1,000 ft
At an extremely large airport, what is in place but not usually used?
a circuit
What helps pilots fly the approach for landing?
visual approach slope indicator
On runways, what indicate the beginning of the runway for landing?
green lights
What includes debris and nesting birds?
Hazards to aircraft
What pulls the aircraft to one of the airbridges?
tow tractor
An airfield is also referred to as what?
airbase
When was the movie Airport made?
1970
Landside, where can filming take place?
all public areas
What year was Kievan Rus became a territory?
882
When was the term Kievan Rus first coined?
19th century
Who populated the area between the Baltic Sea and the Black sea before Kievan Rus?
Slavic tribes
What controversy currently surrounds the Rus?
whether the Rus’ were Varangians (Vikings) or Slavs
Which early traveler provided an early description of the Rus?
Ahmad ibn Fadlan
Which two groups were divided inn the territories of the East Slavs?
Varangians and the Khazars
What were the names of the three brothers that rulled Novgotod, Beloozero, and Izborsk?
Rurik, Sineus, and Truvor
Between what years did Askold and Dir continued to attack Kiev?
863–66
When did Ruik past away?
879
Why did the Kievan state prosper?
abundant supply of furs, beeswax, honey, and slaves for export
What led to constant problems with the Khazars?
rapid expansion of the Rus' to the south
What did the Byzantine empire use to expand its political influence?
turmoil
What led to Khazar having to put more strain on its military?
expansion of the Rus
Around what time did the Khazars unable to no longer command tribute from Volga?
10th century
In what year did the Rus attack Constantinople?
860
When did the relations between the Rus and Byzantines start to become more complicated?
after Oleg took control over Kiev
What known document tells of the death of Oleg?
The Chronicle
What year did Igot led a Rus attack on Constantinople?
941
Where did Igor get warriors from after returning to Kiev after being drivin out by the Byzatines?
Slavs and Pecheneg allies
When did Prince Igor past away?
945
What year did Sviatoslav pass away?
972
What territory was Vladimar Prince of before his father died?
Novgorod
What was considered too be Kiev's most important route for trade?
Dnieper River
What was Yaroslav also known as?
the Wise
What did the rota system do?
power was transferred to the eldest member
What country did the fleeing Grand Prince run off to?
Poland
What played a major role in the decline of the Rus?
decline of Constantinople
Who was the last ruller to keep the region united?
Mstislav the Great
What helped speed up the decline of the Kievan Rus?
The Crusades
What happened to Novgorod when Kievan Rus began to decline?
became more independent
The Slavs from Kievan would eventually settle in the North East of the region, What would this region later become?
Grand Duchy of Moscow
Who united the two previously separated principalities?
Prince Roman Mstislavich
How did the leader of Kiev gain political control?
Due to the expansion of trade
Which two groups dominated the society of Kievan Rus?
mixture of Slavic and Scandinavian elites
What eventually led to the creation of the peasant/smerdy class?
change in political structure
Despite being much smaller than wester europe, what they known for being?
the largest contemporary European state
To which dynasty did Yarolav's step mother belong to?
Macedonian dynasty
How early did the relationship begin between the Pecheneg and the Rus?
9th century
Although uncertian, who is considered to be the first head of Kiev?
Michael I
When was the SNES released in the US?
1991
What was NEC's competitor to the NES called in Japan?
PC Engine
Who designed both the NES and SNES?
Masayuki Uemura
How much did the SNES cost in the US?
US$199
What market did the Genesis target?
older gamers
What was Nintendo's limit on games per developer per year on the NES?
five
How did Nintendo rank submitted games?
using a 40-point scale
Which senators held a hearing about video game violence in 1993?
Herb Kohl and Joe Lieberman
Which company developed Donkey Kong Country?
Rare
How much did the SNS-101 cost in the US?
US$99
How were adapters used to get around PAL region restrictions?
by inserting the imported cartridge in one slot and a cartridge with the correct region chip in a second slot
What video frequency does NTSC use?
60 Hz
What color is the SNES?
predominantly gray
How is the SNES's slot positioned?
top-loading
What material is the SNES case made of?
ABS plastic
What are SNES game cartridges officially called in the US?
Game Pak
What face buttons do SNES controllers have that NES controllers didn't?
X and Y
What game accessory was similar to the NES Zapper?
Super Scope
How did Nintendo say an NES and SNES could be used on the same TV?
either daisy chaining the RF switches or using AV outputs for one or both systems
What modem was available for the Japanese SNES?
Satellaview
Which companies did Nintendo try to get to make a CD add-on for the SNES?
Sony and Philips
What did Nintendo consider emulators?
flagrant software piracy
What smartphones have SNES emulators?
Android devices, Apple's iPhone and iPad
Which publication said Nintendo's best console ever was the SNES?
GameTrailers
Some scholars contest that there was only one what?
substrate language
How long was there native Sumerian rule during the Third Dynasty of Ur?
about a century
What is the common name given to the non-Semitic dwellers of Mesopotamia by the Akkadians?
Sumerian
During what periods did the Sumerican city-states rise to power?
prehistoric Ubaid and Uruk
Fine quality painted pottery is a distinctive style of what period in Sumerian history?
Ubaid
How were trade goods transported in southern Mesopotamia?
transported along the canals and rivers
What is an "ensi"?
priest-king
Who is the earliest king that is authenticated by actual physical evidence and not just legend?
Enmebaragesi
What city-state was the rival of Lagash?
Umma
Where is the Semetic Akkadian language first found?
proper names of the kings of Kish
Which dynasty of Ur was the last great Sumerian renaissance?
3rd
What effect was rising salinity having on the agricultural productivity of the Sumerian lands?
compromised
Who were a non-Semitic caucasoid people?
The Sumerians
Where do some archaeologists speculate Sumerians originally moved from?
the north
How were women protected in Sumerian society?
law
What were the most important discoveries for archaeologists from Sumer?
tablets written in cuneiform
Akkadian's language can be traced to the Semitic branch of what languages?
Afroasiatic
How many cosmogenic myths does the religion of the Sumerians appear to be founded upon?
two
What did the Sumerian deities form?
a core pantheon
What were Sumerian temples known as?
Ziggurats
What type of afterlife could Sumerians look forward to?
confined to a gloomy world
When do the pictograms suggest Sumerians had domesticated livestock?
Uruk period
What was Sumerians one of the first societies known to consume?
beer
Why did the Sumerian farmers make their oxen stomp the ground?
kill weeds
What does Archibald Sayce think early Sumerian pictograms suggest about the availability of stone?
was scarce
What is the most impressive and famous style of Sumerian buildings?
the ziggurats
What did the Sumerians a complex system of around 4000 BC?
metrology
What were the main types of loans in Sumerian society?
Commercial credit and agricultural consumer
What type of debt did "clean slate" decrees cancel?
rural
What contributed to developing military technology for Sumer?
almost constant wars
When did evidence of wheeled vehicles appear throughout the world?
mid 4th millennium BC
Sumerians used number systems which included what alternating bases?
base 10 and base 6
What is the previous name of Tuvalu?
Ellice Islands
In what year was Tuvalu discovered by a European?
1568
How many years ago did migrations of people happen in the Pacific area?
3000 years
What is the creation myth of Tuvalu?
te Pusi mo te Ali
What explorer traveled through the Tuvalu islands in 1764?
Captain John Byron
When did Arent Schuyler de Peyster visit Tuvalu?
May 1819
In what years did Peruvian ships seek laborers in the Polynesian islands?
1862–63
When did Christianity arrive in Tuvalu?
1861
In what century did trading companies arrive in Tuvalu?
mid-19th
What sea captain reported on the Tuvalu trading in 1892?
Captain Davis
What operational changes caused a decline in the numbers of palagi traders in Tuvalu?
structural changes
When did Robert Louis Stevenson sail on the ship Janet Nicoll?
1890
What are the boreholes on Funafuti called?
Darwin's Drill
What naturalist was on the 1896 expedition to Funafuti?
Charles Hedley
For what purpose was Funafuti used during the Pacific War? 
a base
In what year was ministerial government started in the Gilbert and Ellice islands?
1974
When did Tuvalu acquire independence?
October 1978
How many courts are there on Tuvalu?
eight
In what group is Tuvalu involved?
Secretariat of the Pacific Community
What crisis is a major concern for Tuvalu at the UN?
global warming
Of what alliance is Tuvalu a member?
Alliance of Small Island States
In what fishery group does Tuvalu participate? 
Pacific Island Forum Fisheries Agency
What trade agreement did Tuvalu sign in 2013?
Memorandum of Understanding
What is the Tuvalu high chief on each island called?
ulu-aliki
What was the argument against the deportation of a Tuvaluan family from new Zealand?
climate change refugees
What is New Zealand's annual quota of Tuvaluan granted work permits?
75
Besides English, what is the national language of Tuvalu?
Tuvaluan
What is the only hospital in Tuvalu?
Princess Margaret Hospital
Where is the Extension Centre for the USP?
Funafuti
What is the required education for males on Tuvalu?
10 years
What type of school has Tuvalu set up on each atoll?
Community Training Centres
What were the traditional building materials on Tuvalu?
plants and trees
What sea creatures were used in traditional handicrafts?
shells
What is the stable protein  of Tuvalu?
fish
What type of structure is the falekaupule?
meeting hall
What is the traditional sport on Tuvalu?
kilikiti
What athlete won Tuvalu's first gold metal in competition? 
Tuau Lapua Lapua
What is a major annual sports event in Tuvalu?
Independence Day Sports Festival
What was Tuvalu's GDP rate from 1996 to 2002?
5.6%
What business provides banking services on Tuvalu?
National Bank of Tuvalu
What school provides maritime education on Tuvalu?
Tuvalu Maritime Training Institute
How much money does Tuvalu's tv domain name earn each year?
$2.2 million
What is the UN developmental designation for Tuvalu?
least developed
What is the radio station on Tuvalu?
Radio Tuvalu
Where is Tuvalu's only port?
Funafuti
How many reef islands does the Tuvalu group have?
three
Which of Tuvalu's atolls is largest?
Funafuti
What specific ocean temperature conditions effect Tuvalu?
El Niño and La Niña
What type of device did Australia and New Zealand offer to Tuvalu during the 2011 drought?
desalination plants
What is the modern name for the air field built during WWII?
Funafuti International Airport
What percentage of the Tuvalu coral has become bleached?
80 per cent
What has been formed to protect the fish stocks in Tuvalu Lagoon?
Funafuti Conservation Area
What type of desalination is used on Funafuti?
Reverse osmosis
When did the UN ask Tuvalu to come up with a plan to improve drinking water?
July 2012
What geological situation makes Tuvalu prone to storm damage?
low elevation
What cyclone badly damaged Funafuti?
Cyclone Bebe
What were the wave heights during Cyclone Pam on Tuvalu?
3 metres (9.8 ft) to 5 metres (16 ft)
What did the Tuvalu government assess after Cyclone Pam?
damage
What subject is arguable concerning Tuvalu?
sea level
What have the Tuvalu atolls displayed about sea level rise?
resilience
What do some people want to do with the people of Tuvalu?
relocation
What is the Immaculate Conception a representation of the avoidance of ?
original sin only
Is it believed that Mary carried no transgression which would require blame ?
makes no declaration about the Church's belief that the Blessed Virgin was sinless in the sense of freedom from actual or personal sin
Is the view of the impregnation of Mary's pregnancy the same as the one held for the birth of her first child ?
doctrine of the immaculate conception (Mary being conceived free from original sin) is not to be confused with her virginal conception of her son Jesus
What was explained by the man  Giovanni Maria Mastai-Ferretti who later became leader of the Holy Roman Church ?
dogma in Ineffabilis Deus, Pope Pius IX explicitly affirmed that Mary was redeemed in a manner more sublime
What Empire held  Grecian teachers of the virginity of Mary's conception ?
Greek theologians of Byzantium
What proof do some believe is offered as to proof of Mary being the ultimate concept of pure?
include original sin as well as actual. Thus in the first five centuries such epithets as "
Where did the majority of the concepts of Mary's birth show themselves the most ?
Mary's Immaculate Conception appears only later among Latin (and particularly Frankish) theologians
What was widely observed in the eastern portion of the Byzantine world ?
the feast of her conception was widely celebrated in the Byzantine East
What happened on the final day of the month of love that was of significance was authorized by the Holy Roman Church leader ?
authorized those dioceses that wished to introduce the feast to do so, and introduced it to his own diocese of Rome in 1477
What did a teacher of religion  from the college that was named after a Dominican friar do in 1839 of historical note ?
published Esame Critico sulla dottrina dell’ Angelico Dottore S. Tommaso di Aquino circa il Peccato originale, relativamente alla Beatissima Vergine Maria
Who began to query the position of the conception of Mary following the 11th century ?
St Bernard of Clairvaux
What did the the monk of minor believe to be true of Mary ?
that from a rational point of view it was certainly as little derogatory to the merits of Christ
Where did the mass majority stand in relation to having or not having the Mary inception festivals ?
Popular opinion remained firmly behind the celebration of Mary's conception.
What holy document takes the view of Mary back to the creation of man and woman ?
papal bull defining the dogma, Ineffabilis Deus
What sect often stands in disagreement over the virginal inception of Mary ?
Contemporary Eastern Orthodox Christians often object to the dogmatic declaration of her immaculate conception
Who is the person that started the religion that separated itself from the Catholic Church in the 17th century ?
Martin Luther
What was written by the a all inclusive group convened by the holy church centered in Rome ?
Anglican-Roman Catholic International Commission
What  religion is credited by some authors from the west for initiating the story of the conceiving of Mary ?
claim that the immaculate conception of Mary is a teaching of Islam.
Does everyone agree on the credit that should be given for the story of Mary's inception ?
Others have rejected that the doctrine of Immaculate Conception exists in Islam
What did the writer of a 1788 multi-volumed text say concerning plagiarism and the Roman Catholic Church ?
The Latin Church has not disdained to borrow from the Koran the immaculate conception of his virgin mother
What color garment is used in traditional chants to represent the purity of Mary's conception ?
Your clothing is white as snow,
What became very popular symbol among the who believed Mary had a Virgin for a mother ? 
in a heavenly realm, moments after her creation, the spirit of Mary (in the form of a young woman) looks up in awe at (or bows her head to) God
What is the cost of primary and secondary education in Namibia?
free
What is the Afrikaans name for Namibia?
Namibië
When did Bantu immigrate to Namibia?
14th century
What does SWAPO stand for?
South West Africa People's Organisation
Orlam clans crossed which river to migrate to Namibia?
Orange River
What nationality were the first navigators to explore Namibia come from? 
Portuguese
Herero and what other group took action against German occupiers?
Namaqua
When did South Africa refuse to surrender Namibia? 
1946
Which guerrilla group fought for Namibia's independence? 
People's Liberation Army of Namibia
What was Namibia previously called?
South West Africa
What does UNTAG stand for?
United Nations Transition Assistance Group
When was the Namibian Constitution adopted?
February 1990
What did Namibia transition to after white minority apartheid rule?
parliamentary democracy
What Desert is shared between South Africa and Botswana?
Kalahari Desert
What is the climate range for Namibia?
17°S to 25°S
What is the typical amount of sunshine days in Tropical high pressure belt?
300 days
What current dominates the coastal area of Namibia?
Benguela
What is the driest country in sub-Saharan Africa?
Namibia
What does Namibia protect in it's constitution? 
natural resources
When did Namibia receive funding from USAID?
1993
Who does Namibia have affiliation with in their foreign policy?
states that aided the independence
What was the highest unemployment rate in Namibia?
36.7%
What did Bloomberg name Namibia?
top emerging market economy in Africa
How much of the population depends on agriculture?
half
How much revenue does mining provide Namibia?
25%
What accounts for almost 14% of total tourism in Namibia?
Sport hunting
What is the capital of Namibia?
Windhoek
What does NTB stand for?
Namibia Tourism Board
Most residential areas are insufficient in what area of Namibia?
sanitation
Whites make up how much of Namibia's population?
4.0 and 7.0%
When was the first Population and Housing Census in Namibia?
1991
German, English, and Afrikaans were the official languages until when in Namibia?
1990
What is the toughest footrace around the world?
Namibian ultra marathon
What was the first Namibian newspaper?
Windhoeker Anzeiger
What is a popular tabloid magazine in Namibia?
Windhoek Observer
Compared to neighbouring countries, what freedom does Namibia have?
media
What is the life expectancy in Namibia?
52.2
What health issue is compounded by the AIDS epidemic in Namibia?
malaria
What language sub-family is Russian in?
East Slavic
What kind of phonemes are soft sounds?
consonant phonemes with palatal secondary articulation
What language does Russian descend from?
the language used in Kievan Rus'
What language does the Russian Orthodox Church use?
South Slavic Old Church Slavonic
When did Russian language spread to the peasants?
the 20th century
How much of Estonia is ethnic Russians?
25.5%
When did Finland join the Russian Empire?
1809
How many Ukrainians speak Russian natively as of 2004?
14,400,000
What pact contained many Russian-speaking countries?
Warsaw Pact
In which European countries do many Russian immigrants live?
The United Kingdom, Spain, Portugal, France, Italy, Belgium, Greece, Brazil, Norway, and Austria
What convention recognizes Russian in Armenia?
Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities
How many Georgians speak Russian actively?
1.7 million
What is the legal status of Russian in Kazakhstan?
according to article 7 of the Constitution of Kazakhstan its usage enjoys equal status to that of the Kazakh language in state and local administration
Where did Russian explorers first reach North America?
Alaska
When did Apollo-Soyuz fly?
1975
What is the second-most-popular language online as of 2013?
Russian
What two regions do some linguists divide Russian into?
"Northern" and "Southern"
What is okanye?
pronounce unstressed /o/ clearly
What is pronounced [ɪ] in Moscow's dialect?
unstressed /e/ and /a/ following palatalized consonants and preceding a stressed syllable
Who made the first dialectal Russian dictionary?
Vladimir Dal
What did the old letter ⟨ѣ⟩ become?
⟨е⟩
What is 'moroz' a transliteration of?
мороз
Who created KOI8-R encoding?
the Soviet government
What organization is the Institute of Russian Language part of?
Russian Academy of Sciences
Who says Russian has 6 vowels?
St. Petersburg Phonological School
What might /kʲ/ be considered?
a phoneme
When did Eastern Slavs become the dominant group in the area of Ukraine?
approximately 1000 AD
Where did Russian get specialized vocabulary from?
the languages of Western Europe
Who revolutionized modern Russian?
Alexander Pushkin
When did the USSR dissolve?
1991
What department is the Research Center for Sociological Research part of?
Ministry of Education and Science (Russia)
What is the USAF?
the aerial warfare service branch of the United States Armed Forces
How many departments are there in the Department of Defense?
three
How many core functions did the Air Force reduce its duties down to recently? 
twelve
What is the mission set of the Air Force called that includes nuclear strike operations? 
Assure/Dissuade/Deter
What is the definition of a nuclear strike? 
the ability of nuclear forces to rapidly and accurately strike targets
What ensures the safety of nuclear operations? 
Nuclear surety
What does the abbreviation OCA stand for? 
Offensive Counterair
What does the abbreviation DCA stand for? 
Defensive Counterair
What is the dominance in space of one force over another? 
Space superiority
What is the definition of Space Control according to the US and its allies? 
operations to ensure freedom of action in space
Who responds with the employment of capabilities where there is a threat?
Air Force
What division ensures the Air Force's information integrity and availability? 
Cyberspace Support
What is the definition of Command and Control in the Air Force operations? 
exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated commander over assigned and attached forces
What agency is in charge of intelligence requirements? 
Joint and National Intelligence Support to Military Operations
What are Special Operations? 
operations conducted in hostile, denied, or politically sensitive environments
What is the definition of Airlift according to the Air Mobility Operations? 
operations to transport and deliver forces and materiel through the air
Who coordinates the deployment of thee Aeromedical Evacuation? 
Health Service Support
What does the abbreviation PR stand for in terms of the US military?
Personnel Recovery
What are programs that are designed to help with natural or manmade disaters? 
Humanitarian Assistance Operations
What does Building Partnerships relate to in the Air Force? 
airmen interacting with international airmen and other relevant actors
Who created the first version of the US Air Force in 1907?
U.S. War Department
What was the National Military Establishment renamed in 1949?
Department of Defense
When did the USAF have several missteps of aircraft procurement projects? 
early 2000s
What did the USAF strive to improve since 2005?
Basic Military Training
What year did the USAF take a Reduction-in-force?
2007
Who was Robert Gates? 
Secretary of Defense
Why was the USAF forced to ground some of its squadrons in 2013?
Budget sequestration
What is one of the concerns of the Air Force? 
replace its aging fleet
Who is the Department of the Air Force managed by?
Secretary of the Air Force
Who directs the Secretary of the Air Force during operational missions? 
Secretary of Defense
What are "Chopped" units called in the USAF?
forces
What kind of AFSC is a JAG?
judge advocate general
What does the abbreviation EOD stand for in the USAF?
Explosive Ordnance Disposal
How long is the training for Explosive Ordnance Disposal in the USAF?
one year of training with a preliminary school
What groups is the USAF rank divided amoung? 
enlisted airmen, non-commissioned officers, and commissioned officers
Was does ROPMA stand for in the USAF? 
Reserve Officer Personnel Management Act
Where is an officer's record in the USAF reviewed for a promotion?
Air Force Personnel Center at Randolph Air Force Base
What section in the US Code for the Secretary of the Air Force allows for the appointment of warrant officers?
Title 10
What is the lowest pay grade in the USAF?
E-1 (entry level)
When does NCO status happen in all other branches of the US Military?
pay grade of E-4
Where was the Uxbridge Blue dress uniform developed?
former Bachman-Uxbridge Worsted Company
What is worn by USAF members to indicate a billet assignment? 
various badges
USAF Officers can be commissioned after graduation from what school? 
United States Air Force Academy
What does the Air Force provide for officers of direct to non-line positions?
Commissioned Officer Training
What is the more strict program that the USAF adopted in 2010 called?
Fit to Fight program
What are the ground-attack aircraft in the USAF usually deployed in support for? 
U.S. ground forces
What are most attack aircraft in the US Air Force designed to do? 
drop bombs
When did the B-2A aircraft enter into service of the US Air Force? 
1990s
What type of aircraft is used to deliver troops and weapons to military operations? 
Cargo and transport
What is the purpose of electronic warfare?
deny the opponent an advantage in the EMS
What is the primary function of the USAF fighter aircraft?
air-to-air combat
What kind of aircraft is the USAF's KC-135?
aerial refueling aircraft
What US Secretary of Defense accepted resignations of top US Air Force officials in June of 2009?
Robert Gates
What author wrote about the US Air Force egalitarian culture?
Major General Charles J. Dunlap, Jr.
What is the reason for the shortage of UAV operators in the US Air Force?
Cultural and career issues
Where did some of the US Air Force traditions come from? 
Royal Air Force
What was a recent US Air Force recruiting slogan? 
"No One Comes Close"
What type of atmosphere can LED lighting be used?
environmental
What was the nationality of the man who discovered Electroluminescence?
British
What year was it discovered that early LED instruments could be used for non-radio communication?
1957
In what state what near-infrared light emission discovered? 
Texas
At what global company was the first visible-spectrum LED developed?
General Electric Company
What was the first commercial uses of LEDs?
replacements for incandescent and neon indicator lamps
What color LED was demonstrated in 1994?
blue
What LED quickly followed the blue LEDs?
white
What converts absorbed light energy into an electric current?
P-N junction
In what year was a new type of blue LED produced?
2003
What is a symptom of LED failure?
loss of efficiency
LED efficacy is inversely proportional to what?
operating temperature
What students developed the first blue-violet LED?
Herb Maruska and Wally Rhines
In what decade were breakthroughs made that brought in the modern era of GaN-based optoelectronic devices?
1980s
What Nobel Prize did Nakamura, Amano, and Akasaki receive in 2014?
Physics
What are cladding layers?
active region consisting of one or more InGaN quantum wells sandwiched between thicker layers of GaN
What substance does nitrides contain?
aluminium
What colors are used to form white light?
red, green, and blue
What is a factor that may be different in the various types of multi-color white LEDs?
luminous efficacy
Multi-color LEDs offer what else besides the formation of white light?
to form light of different colors
What method involves coating LEDs of one color with phosphors of different colors?
phosphor-converted white LEDs (pcLEDs)
What do phosphor-based LEDs luminous efficacies depend on?
the spectral distribution of the resultant light output
What can improve the efficiency of LED-based white light?
more efficient phosphors
White LEDs can be made by coating what?
near-ultraviolet (NUV) LEDs
What is being used to produce white LEDs?
wafers composed of gallium-nitride-on-silicon
What nanocrystals possess unique optical properties?
Quantum dots
What is one scheme of Quantum Dot excitation?
electrical-excitation
How many lumens can some high-power LEDs emit?
over a thousand
What company has developed LEDs that can operate on AC power?
Seoul Semiconductor
What type of LEDs are available in seven-segment format?
Alphanumeric
What makes RGB LEDs different?
contain their own "smart" control electronics
What does an LED filament consist of?
multiple LED dice
How are LEDs similar to other diodes?
the current is dependent exponentially on the voltage
How are most LEDs classified?
Class 1 LED product
What dangerous metal can LEDs contain?
arsenic
What type of light is ideal for traffic signals?
One-color light
Because of their high output, LED lights are very useful where?
brake lights for cars
Where are infrared LEDs used in everday life?
theaters
In what country does one kilowatt-hour of electricity causes 1.34 pounds of CO 2 emission?
US
LEDs are often used for what type of systems?
Machine vision
Where are LEDs often used?
free space optics communications
What video game console uses infrared LEDs?
Nintendo Wii
What quality has LEDs been used as?
medium-quality
What is a group of endothermic vertebrates characterised by feathers and toothless beaked jaws?
Birds
What are the last surviving dinosaurs, according o the fossil record?
birds
What makes birds uniquely adapted for flight?
digestive and respiratory systems
Which type of birds are among the most intelligent animals?
corvids and parrots
Which birds are popular as pets?
Songbirds, parrots
Besides Aves, what group contains the only living representatives of the reptile clade Archosauria?
clade Crocodilia
What evidence leads most scientists to accept that birds are a specialized subgroup of theropod dinosaurs?
fossil and biological evidence
What are the closest relatives of the deinonychosaurs?
flying theropods
What is known as one of the first transitional fossils to be found?
Late Jurassic Archaeopteryx
The Oxfordian stage is also known as what?
late Jurassic period
During which time period did avialans diversify into a wide variety of forms?
Cretaceous Period
What were the first large, diverse lineage of short-tailed avialans to evolve?
enantiornithes
What group became the first avialans to develop true pygostyle and a fully mobile fan of tail feathers?
Euornithes
All modern birds lie within which crown group?
Aves
What was the earliest divergence within the Neognathes?
Galloanserae
Sibley and Ahlquist' Phylogeny and Classification of Birds is a landmark work on the classification of what animals?
birds
Birds live on how many continents?
seven
The ring-necked pheasant has been introduced as what kind of bird?
game bird
What consists of very lightweight bones?
The skeleton
What is it called when a bird's kidneys extract nitrogenous waste from their bloodstream and secrete it as uric acid?
uricotelic
Upon inhalation, what percentage of fresh air bypasses the lungs and flows directly into a posterior air sac?
75%
The avian circulatory system is driven by what?
four-chambered, myogenic heart
Why are birds' arteries composed of thick elastic muscles?
to withstand the pressure of the ventricular constriction
Which bird system is large relative to a bird's size?
nervous system
What covers the eye and acts as a contact lens in many aquatic birds?
nictitating membrane
What is known to sometimes result in injury or death?
intraspecific conflicts
What is a feature characteristic of birds?
Feathers
What is regularly moulted?
Plumage
How often do birds groom their feathers?
daily
What distinguishes birds from almost all other vertebrate classes?
Most birds can fly,
What is the term used for birds that employ many strategies to obtain food?
generalists
What is the term for stealing food items from other birds?
kleptoparasitism
How do nesting sandgrouse carry water to their young?
wetting their belly feathers
Birds preen often with the application of secretions from which gland?
preen gland
When do birds substantially increase body fats and reduce the size of some of their organs?
Before migration
In Australia, what percentage of non-passerine birds were partially migratory
44%
In which type of migration do birds use the sun to navigate by day and a stellar compass at night?
diurnal migrants
What allows for the identification of birds, particularly between species?
Variation in plumage
What do some birds use for auditory communication?
mechanical sounds
What are the principal benefits of flocking?
safety in numbers and increased foraging efficiency
Sleeping birds often use a type of sleep known as what?
vigilant sleep
These types of birds have a tendon locking mechanism.
Perching birds
What percent of bird species are socially monogamous?
Ninety-five percent
Which gender typically performs some form of courtship display?
male
What kind of eggs to all birds lay?
amniotic eggs
Where do birds usually lay their eggs?
nest
What process optimises temperature for chick development?
Incubation
When does parental care end in megapodes?
at hatching
Alloparenting is particulary common with what species?
Corvida
Which chicks leave the nest the night after they hatch?
chicks of the Synthliboramphus murrelets
What is it called when an egg-layer leaves her eggs with another individual's brood?
Brood parasitism
What is the most famous example of sexual selection?
peacock tail
What is it called when there is greater than 30 percent reduction in hatchability of eggs?
inbreeding depression
What occurs when offspring delay dispersal from their natal group?
Cooperative breeding
What type of birds generally feed by fishing, plant eating or piracy?
Aquatic birds
What are often important to island ecology?
Birds
What is it called when the house sparrow has benefited from human activity?
commensal
What are domesticated birds raised for meat and eggs?
poultry
Why have birds been domesticated by humans?
both as pets and for practical purposes
What play prominent roles in religion and mythology?
Birds
When were birds represented in early cave paintings?
since prehistoric times
How many bird species have gone extinct in historical times?
Over a hundred
What was the last Chinese dynasty?
Great Qing, or the Manchu dynasty
Who started the Manchun dynasty?
Jurchen Aisin Gioro clan
What years did the Qianlong Emperor rule?
(1735–1796)
What started on October 11, 1911?
Xinhai Revolution
Who named himself the Bright Khan?
Nurhaci
After taking the bulk of China what did the Manchuse call their state?
China
What ethnic group make up the most people in China?
Han Chinese
Where did Nurhachi move his court to?
Liaodong
What group did the Manchus take over to add strength to their numbers?
Mongols
When were the first couple Han Banners founded?
1637
Who included newly conquered Ming officials in his government?
Hong Taiji
When did Hong Taiji die?
September 1643
Who raided Beijing in 1644?
Li Zicheng
How big was Li Zicheng's army?
200,000
How long did it take for the Manchus to take the rest of China?
seventeen years
What percent of bannermen did the Han represent?
75%
Who were the three Liandong Han bannermen who were instrumental in the taking of southern China?
Shang Kexi, Geng Zhongming, and Kong Youde
Who made Beijing his capital?
Dorgon
What did Dorgon declare in July of 1645?
the "haircutting order")
Who was a threat to Shunzhi's throne?
Dorgon
Who did the Manchus send to battle Koxinga's troops?
Han Bannermen
How long was Kangxi Emperor in power?
sixty-one year
What type of learning did the early Manchu leaders respect?
Confucian
Who was the most important Ming general?
Wu Sangui
When did Kexi retire?
1673
How long did the Revolt of the Three Feudatories last?
eight years
When did Wu destroy the Qing armies?
1673-1674
Who did Kangxi fight?
Dzungars
When did Kangxi die?
1722
Who did Yongzheng behead?
anti-Manchu writer
Who did Yongzheng call Marquis?
Zhu Zhiliang
When was the Treaty of Kyakhta written?
1727
How many books were in the Siku Quanshu?
3,400 books
What crops helped the Chinese?
potato and peanut
Where did Hans go to to find land?
Manchuria
Where were starving Han sent by the Qing?
Manchuria and Inner Mongolia
Which empires grew during the 18th century?
European states
What products from China did Europeans want?
silk, tea, and ceramics
Who fought the Qing in the First Opium War?
British
What marked the first occurence of anti-Manchu feeling?
The Taiping Rebellion
Were the European empires satisfied or unsatisfied by the Treaty of Nanjing?
unsatisfied
Whed did the British and French invade Beijing?
1860
Who put down the rebellions?
Zuo Zongtang
Who did the Chinese lose territory to in exchange for help?
Russian
What was the main problem the Qing had in preventing invasion from Europe?
naval weakness
What coup happened in 1884?
Gapsin Coup
What was the name of Xianfeng's concubine?
Cixi
Where did the Empress Dowager spend most of her time?
Summer Palace
What did the emperor do in response to so many defeats by the Europeans?
Hundred Days' Reform of 1898
Where was there a drought?
North China
What did Cixi do in 1901?
issued an imperial edict
What year did Guangxu die?
1908
Who led the Qing?
Yuan Shikai
What year did the end of Imperial China occur?
1912
Who split the leadership roles in the Qing dynasty?
Han Chinese and Manchus
Who was the main leader of the Qing?
Emperor
Who controlled the "Inner Court"?
imperial family and Manchu nobility
What shape of emblem signified a Han official?
square emblem
Who governed the areas of Tibet and Mongolia?
Lifan Yuan
What was the foreign service called?
Zongli Yamen
Which emperor followed Shunzhi?
Kangxi
What century did Qing China stretch to its largest?
18th century
What two provinces were formed from Huguang?
Hubei and Hunan
When did Tibet become part of Qing China?
mid-18th century
What title did the emperor hold in Mongolia?
khan
Who created the Eight Banners?
Nurhaci
How were Banner's organized?
along ethnic lines
What caused the Qing armies to lose many battles?
Taiping Rebellion
Who inspired Zeng Guofan in creating his army?
Qi Jiguang
What entity became the main Qing troops?
Yongying corps
When was the Second Opium War?
1860
Who beat the Chinese in the First Sino-Japanese War?
Japan
What happened in early and middle Qing history?
population growth
How many estates were there in Qing society?
five
What did China export?
tea, silk and manufactures
What did the Qing do to reform land ownership?
reduced the tax burden
What was China's population at the end of the 18th century?
300 million
What arts were the Qing emperors good at?
poetry and often skilled in painting
Name three painters?
Four Wangs and the individualists Bada Shanren (1626–1705) and Shitao (1641–1707)
What was the sign of a gentleman?
Poetry
Who wrote the Suiyuan Shidan?
Yuan Mei
Who are the indigenous people of the Americas descended from?
pre-Columbian inhabitants of the Americas
Where do most theories today attribute the settlement of the Americas as originating from?
Asia
What incorrect term for the indigenous population originated with Christopher Columbus? 
Indian
What were many of the indigenous people of the Americas traditionally?
hunter-gatherers
Belize, Chile and Greenland are just some countries with sizable populations of what peoples?
indigenous
How Paleo-Indians migrated to the Americas is still a matter for what type of research?
ongoing
What do studies on the genetics of the first American inhabitants conclude about their ancestral population?
single
What does the data indicate about the population the individual was from?
directly ancestral
The term Pre-Columbian technically refers to which era?
before Christopher Columbus' voyages of 1492
Urban settlements and complex societal hierarchies are just some of the hallmarks established by which civilizations?
pre-Columbian
What had the civilizations in the Americas achieved by the time the Europeans encountered them?
many accomplishments
What did the European colonization forever change?
lives and cultures of the peoples of the continents
Who was the first group of indigenous people Columbus encountered?
the 250,000 Taínos of Hispaniola
What behaviors did the Taínos begin to adopt after years of mistreatment?
suicidal
What was the overwhelming reason for the decline of Native American populations?
epidemic disease
What percent of the Aboriginal population of North America was killed in the first hundred years after first contact by smallpox and measles?
between 50 and 67 per cent
What Empire brought horses to the Americas?
Spanish
What did the indigenous peoples of America cultivate over the course of thousands of years?
a large array of plant species
Where was a center of early agriculture?
South American highlands
When did the North American natives begin farming?
approximately 4,000 years ago
What global industry owes its existence to having been domesticated by indigenous Americans?
Many crops
What did geographical zones encourage the sharing of?
Cultural practices
What was one of the many achievements of the American cultures?
development of writing
What is the Mayan writing system the only known pre-Columbian one to completely represent this?
spoken language of its community
When were indigenous scribes taught to use Latin letters?
the sixteenth century
What characteristic did the majority of Native American music have?
monophonic
What feature did the music of Central America have?
pentatonic
What comprises a major category in the world art collection?
Visual arts by indigenous peoples
What was the number of indigenous people in Argentina as of 2005?
about 600,329
What percentage of the residents in Bolivia self-identify as belonging to an indigenous people?
62%
Who retained indigenous language and culture after the Spanish conquest?
Bolivian highland peasants
Who came up with a policy for indigenous autonomy?
Morales
How much of Brazil's population is comprised of indigenous peoples?
0.4%
What is the term Eskimo said to mean?
"eater of raw meat."
What were the early interactions between First Nations and Europeans?
relatively peaceful
What is the name for the Polynesian people living on Easter Island?
the Rapanui
What was Ecuador the site of?
many indigenous cultures
What percentage of Ecuador's indigenous population are Highland Quichuas?
96.4%
El Salvador was home to which indigenous peoples?
the Pipil, the Lenca, Xinca, and Kakawira
How much of the population of Honduras is of full-blooded indigenous descent?
About five percent
What was Mexico home to prior to the arrival of the Spaniards?
indigenous civilizations
What grants all indigenous languages spoken in Mexico validity? 
General Law of Linguistic Rights of the Indigenous Peoples
What percentage of the Nicaraguan population are indigenous?
About 5%
What percentage of Peru's population is indigenous?
45%
Where are the indigenous peoples referred to as "American Indians"?
the contiguous United States
What amoun of the United States population is compromised of Native Americans?
0.97% to 2%
What do most Venezuelans have?
some indigenous heritage
What remains a controversy regarding how to refer to the indigenous peoples of the Americas?
The Native American name
What have the peoples in the Americas been more vocal about since the 20th century?
the ways they wish to be referred to
Where has there been a rise of indigenous movements in recent years?
the Americas (mainly South America)
Who started a forum in support of Morales' legal process of change?
Representatives
What does the genetic history of indigenous peoples of the Americas primarily focus on?
Human Y-chromosome DNA haplogroups
Who have studies of the mtDNA of Turkic-speaking peoples shown they're closest to genetically?
Amerindians
What did human settlement of the New World occur in?
stages
When was a study about the DNA of a young boy published in Nature?
2013
What is more likely than the Solutrean hypothesis?
route through Beringia
What 2 continents meet at Egypt?
Africa and southwest corner of Asia
How far back does Egypt's history date back?
tenth millennium BC
How many inhabitants does Egypt have?
over 90 million
What leader stepped down in 2011?
President Hosni Mubarak
What is the Egyptian Arabic name for Egypt?
Miṣr
During 6000 BC what area was occupied by a Neolithic culture?
Nile Valley
How long was the upheval of the first Intermediate period?
150 years
What year were the New Kingdom in control?
1550–1070 BC
Who took control of Egypt in 525 BC?
Achaemenid Persians
What were the reaches of the Ptolemaic Kingdom?
Syria in the east, to Cyrene to the west, and south to the frontier with Nubia
Who was last ruler of Ptolemaic Kingdom?
Cleopatra VII
Who took control of Egypt from Sasanian Persian rule?
Byzantines
Who modernized Egyptian army?
Muhammad Ali Pasha
When was Suez canal completed?
1869
When was new constitution drafted?
1923
In what year did Egypt and Syria Form a sovereign union?
1958
Who found the claims of Israeli attack baseless?
Mohamed Fawzi
How many rich, upper class were in Egypt in 1950s?
less than half a million
When did Nasser die?
1970
What was encouraged through Infitah?
foreign investment
What group dominated the political scene when Mubarak was in power?
National Democratic Party,
What did constitutional changes in 2007 prohibit?
parties from using religion as a basis for political activity
When was interim government instituted?
18 January 2014
When does most of Egypts rain fall?
winter months
How many species of plants were recorded in Egypt?
2426
What branch of government are the House of Representatives focused on?
legislation
Who were primary targets of Egypt terrorist attacks?
Christian Copts, foreign tourists and government officials
When was new constitution institutionalised?
18 January 2014
Where does Egypt rank for Religious freedom according to Pew Forum?
fifth worst
What trend has Egypt healthcare made recently?
great strides forward
According to QS World University Rankings where does Cairo University rank?
551-600
What do Coptic Christians face?
discrimination at multiple levels of the government,
what controversial practice does Egypt actively administer as punishment?
capital punishment
What US president was critical of Egypt's repression of Muslim Brotherhood?
US president Barack Obama
How much military assistance di US give Egypt in 2015?
US$1.3 billion
Equipment from what country is being replaced?
Soviet Union
Where is the Arab League headquarters?
Cairo
What country has Egypt famously had peace with since 1973 treaty?
Israel
What areas of economy is Egypt dependent on?
agriculture, media, petroleum imports, natural gas, and tourism
Is Egypt able to sustain just from its own energy production?
has been a net oil importer since 2008
What has been the trend lately in the Egypt economy?
improve considerably
How much had FDI increased to in 2006?
$6 billion
To what extent does wealth reach from affluent down to average population?
limited trickle down
What are Egypt's 2 most prominent multinational compnaies?
Orascom Group and Raya Contact Center
Where are Egyptian beaches situated?
Mediterranean and the Red Sea
How much oil is Egypt producing in a day?
691,000 bbl/d
What is consideredt the most important part of maritime transport in middle east?
The Suez Canal
How long is Suez canal?
193.30 km (120.11 mi)
What basic part of civilization has been characterized by achievement and challenges?
Drinking water supply and sanitation
Because of low sanitation coverage 17,000 Egyptian children to die each year from what condition?
diarrhoea
What is the largest ethnic group in Egypt?
Ethnic Egyptians
Approximately how many rufugees and asylum seekers are in Egypt?
between 500,000 and 3 million
What is official language of Egypt?
Modern Standard Arabic
Prior to 7th century, what was primary religion of Egypt?
Christian
What church do 90% of Christian minority in Egypt belong?
Coptic Orthodox Church
What 3 religions does Egypt recognise?
Islam, Christianity, and Judaism
What color was frequently used in Egyptian designs?
Egyptian blue
Who was the first to develop literature?
Egyptians
Who financed Studio Misr?
Talaat Harb
What elements mix for Egyptian music?
indigenous, Mediterranean, African and Western
What is the oldest era in Egypt?
prehistoric
What is koshari?
mixture of rice, lentils, and macaroni
What is the most popular sport in Egypt?
Football
What was the last international competition Egypt hosted?
2009 FIFA U-20 World Cup
What millennium did Mosaic start?
the 3rd millennium BC
The pebble mosaics found at Tiyns are from what age?
Bronze age
What common artform is far more prestigious than mosaic?
paintings
What type of mosaic uses small tesserae?
opus vermiculatum
Which caesar hired builders to construct the Domus Aurea?
Nero
In what area of Italy is the largest collection of mosaics in the world?
Sicily
What scenes are depicted on the Zliten mosaic?
gladiatorial contests
Around what century were mosaics adapted for Christian churches?
the late 4th century
Which city besides Ravenna served as the capital of the Western Roman Empire?
Milan
In the 5th century what was the capital of the Western Roman Empire?
Ravenna
When was Ravenna conquered by the Eastern Roman Empire?
After 539
The floor mosaic in Butrint is how much older than that of the Baptistry?
almost a generation
What was depicted on the Butrint mosaics in abundance?
natural life
When did conditions become difficult for mosaic art in Rome?
the Early Middle Ages
During which centuries did ROme fall under the influence of Byzantine art?
the 7th–9th centuries
When were the mosaics at the Great Palace of Constantinople commissioned?
during Justinian's reign
How many Byzantine mosaics survived past the 8th century?
Very few
What was the common mosaic theme of iconoclastic churches?
gold mosaics with only one great cross
Where is the Nea Moni Monastery located?
Chios
Who restored the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in the 1040's?
Constantine Monomachos
When were the Byzantine mosaics of the Hagia Sophia created?
The 9th- and 10th-century
Why are there so few surviving mosaics from the Komnenian period?
accidents of survival
How big were the tesserae in the Komnenian period miniature mosaic icons?
1 mm or less
When was the Church of the Holy Apostles built? 
1310–14
where is the greatest mosaic work of the renaissance?
the Chora Church in Constantinople
When was the last period of Roman mosaic art?
the 12th–13th century
Who created the Navicella mosaic in the Old St. Peter's church?
Giotto di Bondone
Why did the Normans adopt a Byzantine art style?
enhance the somewhat dubious legality of their rule
When was the Martorana church decorated?
around 1143
What is the name of the largest mosaics in Italy?
The Monreale mosaics
What region of italy was part of the Norman empire?
Southern
Which area in Italy besides Sicily did mosaic art not go out of fashion in the middle ages?
Venice
Where is the Cathedral of Santa Maria Assunta?
Torcello
Who hired Byzantine experts to decorate a rebuilt abbey church?
The Abbot of Monte Cassino
What was special about St Mark's Basilica in Venice?
façades were also decorated
What proves mosaics were used in the early middle ages?
scant remains
What would replace the labor intensive technique of mosaic?
fresco
Where is the Church of the Holy Sepulchre located?
Jerusalem
when were mosaic pavements uncovered at the Bizere Monastery?
2003
How is Raphael portrayed in St. Peter's?
by a mosaic replica of this last painting
What is the most important mosaic piece built by Byzantine Christians?
the Madaba Map
What era were the mosaics that adorned Saint Catherine's Monastery?
Justinian
Which city had the highest percentage of mosaic covered churches?
Jerusalem
Where would the Byzantine church of the Lazarium be located today?
Bethany
The churches of which desert decorated their monasteries with mosaics?
the Judean
How many Christian churches have been found in the Christian Petra?
three
Where would the Church of St Stephen be located today?
Umm ar-Rasas
Yaroslav held what title in medieval Russia?
Grand Prince of the Kievan Rus'
In what country is the the Gelati Monastery located?
Georgia
The remains of what was found at Sepphoris?
a 6th-century synagogue
When was the synagogue in Eshtemoa constructed?
around the 4th century
In Byzantine Gaza, Jews were relaxed on what ban?
figurative depiction
A 5th-century building in Huldah is believed to be what?
a Samaritan synagogue
Who conquered the Eastern Provinces of the Byzantine empire?
Muslim
Where is the most important Islamic mosaic work?
the Umayyad Mosque
Any mosaic having secular designs were likely what?
floor panels
Where are some of the best examples of islamic mosaic work found?
Moorish Spain
The Cathedral Basilica of St. Louis holds the largest what?
mosaic installation
What has recently seen an expansion of mosaic artwork?
street art
Which city has almost all of its sidewalks in Portuguese pavement?
Lisbon
How were larger mosaics usually constructed?
face-down to a backing paper
When is the double indirect method of mosaic useful?
when it is important to see the work
What is the typical size of a ceramic mosaic tile?
1 in × 1 in
Why has production automation become popular?
high cost of labor in developed countries
From what language does Universitas come from?
Latin
In terms of academics what is a core requirement of a university?
academic freedom
Who presided over classes at a scholae monasticae?
monks and nuns
Which ancient texts began to see more study after universities were formed?
Greek
Roughly how many pages of the works of Aristotle were translated by the 12th century?
more than 3000 pages
Which language was used in lectures in early European universities?
Latin
What type of university was an Islamic madrasa akin to?
Mediterranean universities
Madrasas in which specific location are said to have guided the formation of medieval universities?
Al-Andalus
What was the time span of the Early Modern period?
late 15th century to 1800
What war most curtailed the spread of universities in the 17th century?
the Thirty Years' War
What were the faculty who supervised students in the University of Paris called?
masters
What was the source of educational material in Early Modern age universities?
the curriculum and research of the Middle Ages
Discovery and exposition were examples of the focus of what type of university scholar?
humanist
In multiple countries in Europe students can attend a university with what kind if financial burden?
without tuition fees
In Ireland what word is mainly used instead of university?
college
A college teaches students for how many years in Canada?
two
How many vice presidents do most universities have?
at least one
How does the financial backing of universities around the world differ?
varies widely
What is a university formed through a bilateral treaty known as?
intergovernmental
What was a focus of the National University of Ireland during the beginning of Irish Independence?
Irish language and Irish culture
In what year did the Robbins report say that universities should have four objectives to remain balanced?
1963
Ending with what century did religion play a smaller part in the curriculum of universities?
19th
At the end of what period would universities become alike to contemporary universities?
the end of the early modern period
Scientists and universities were competing for what?
limited resources
What percentage of scientists from 1450–1650 in the Dictionary of Scientific Biography were taught in a university?
more than 80%
What type of epistemology served as the foundation of knowledge constructions and  training scholars in universities?
Aristotelian
The study of humanism among those studying math, astronomy and medicine is said to have caused what?
the scientific revolution
The members of what class were priests in ancient Rome?
elite
What characteristics were not inherent in Roman religious practice?
faith or dogma
How deities did the Romans have?
great number
What was the practice of religion to the Romans?
personal choice
To the Romans what did them think promoted social stability?
preserving tradition
After the Republic collapsed,  what addition was made to the religions of Rome?
emperors
What mythical figure did the Romans consider to be semi-divine?
Aeneas
What mythical characters were involved in the founding of Rome?
Romulus and Remus
What type of organization did Romulus establish?
religious
To what were the first kings of Rome associated?
religious institutions
What type of myth did Rome not have?
creation
To the Romans who was the most powerful of the gods?
Jupiter
What type of religious practices outnumbered the state observances?
commonplace
How many religious celebrations did Rome have?
forty
What type of festivals happened when events warranted them?
fulfillment of religious vows
What did obscure festivals offer Romans the opportunity to do?
reinterpretation
Around what aspect did the Romans a lot space?
ritual
What did each offering require to be valid in Roman religion?
prayer
When did the sacrifices to the deities of the heavens occur? 
daylight
When were the gods below and the dead celebrated?
nighttime
What elements had the power of benefit or harm in Roman religion?
divine agencies
What type of circumstances were called for in times of extreme difficulties?
Extraordinary
What were the exta of a sacrifice?
entrails
What type of sacrifice was rare in Rome?
Human
During what war was the first gladiator munus held?
First Punic War
Who was the founder of the Roman Republic?
L. Junius Brutus
What act did Romans view as obnoxious?
human sacrifice
Which individual in the household was responsible for the Vesta cult?
wife
On what kind of system was Roman religious law focused?
ritualised
What organization payed for the maintenance official cults?
state
What was lacking as to the profession of a priest class in Rome?
separate priestly caste
Who supervised sacred rites during the era of kings?
rex sacrorum
What group selected public priests in Rome?
collegia
How many Vestals were there in Rome?
six
What vow was required of Vestals?
chastity
Where could a householder rekindle the home's flame?
Vesta's flame
What group's status was improved by Augustus' religious reforms?
Vestals
In what area did public rites take place in Rome?
sacred precinct
What process did haruspicy use to divine the will of the gods?
examination of entrails
What were considered to be natural transgressions by the Romans?
Prodigies
What author wrote of disaster prodigies?
Livy
From what source does information of Roman thought about the afterlife come?
educated elite
What type of rites varied in accordance with status and religion?
Funeral and commemorative
What group's burial practices over-lapped with the Roman's?
Christian
How were Roman camps laid out?
standard pattern
What type of personnel did every camp have?
religious
What was a Roman general's most extreme offering?
devotio
What general was consul in 249 BC?
Publius Claudius Pulcher
What was the amount of participation by women in religious observances?
limited
What was excessive religious fervor in Rome's religions?
superstitio
What type of diviners were suspect in Rome?
private diviners
What word was used by the Romans for practitioners of magic?
magi
What witch was reputed to be able to stop the rotation of the heavens?
Erichtho
What forbid harmful  incantations?
Twelve Tables
What science has confirmed the existence of magic use from early times?
Archaeology
What male group dominated all aspects of Rome?
aristocracy
The link between what groups was necessary to Rome?
religious and political
What did the patrician electorate keep in spite of a new plebeian nobility? 
political traditions and religious cults
What appointment was the start of Cesar's political rise?
pontifex maximus
At the end of the regal period, what class was kept out of the state political and priesthood arenas?
plebeian
Whose cult appeared from Africa at the time of the Latin League?
Diana
What cult appeared from Pessinus in 206 BC?
Magna Mater
The spread of all things Greek provided what for the interpretation of Rome's religions?
model
What did many Romans claim in the Republican era?
divine ancestor
By the end of the Republic, what offices were increasingly joined?
religious and political
From what were countries in the empire free?
Roman religious law
What style of religious dedication was not uncommon for outer border areas?
diis deabusque omnibus
What Roman leader aspired to be a living god?
Julius Caesar
What was the emperor's rule in Rome?
divinely approved
What means guaranteed the Jews and Judaism in Rome?
treaty
What group was accused of starting the Great Fire of 64 AD?
Christians
Which emperor decreed that all Romans must sacrifice to traditional gods?
Decius
What did  Valerian call the Christian religion?
subversive foreign cult
For what reason were Maximillian and Marcellus executed?
treason
How were the Roman edicts handled in some areas?
strictly enforced
Who said the imperial honors were against Christian teachings?
St. Jerome
What edict defined imperial ideas as being those of toleration?
edict of Milan
What group did Constantine call to a meeting?
First Council of Nicaea
What emperor tried to revive traditional religious practices?
Julian
Who rejected the Christian religion?
Julian
What office did Western emperor Gratian decline?
pontifex maximus
Where is Youtube headquartered? 
San Bruno, California, United States
What are the first names of the men that invented youtube?
Hurley and Chen
when was the first beta test for the youtube site?
May 2005
As of 2014, how many hours of video were being uploaded every  minute?
300
What did youtube do on March 31 2010? 
launched a new design
What did youtube announce in Feb of 2015?
a new app
In 2010 youtube launched a version of its site that ran on what standard?
HTML5
What is the maximum length of a video on youtube?
12 hours
When was 720p HD support added to youtube?
In November 2008
Peter Bradshaw held what position in youtube?
software engineer
Youtube offers users the option to watch content where?
outside their website
YOutube does not often post a what for its videos?
download link
When did youtube become available on Apple products?
June 2007
What service was able to search and play youtube videos as of 2008?
TiVo
What is youtube red?
YouTube's premium subscription service
Other than private individuals, who has used youtube to grow their audience?
large production companies
Who is the TED curator?
Chris Anderson
An activist in the Arab spring said they were using Facebook to what?
schedule the protests
How has youtube helped the government?
to more easily engage with citizens
What is the name of the group that drew responses from the resident and most of his staff regarding anti-bullying?
It Gets Better Project
How much time does the average person spend watching youtube videos each day?
15 minutes
When did youtube enter a partnership with NBC?
June 2006
What was youtube's 2007 partner program based on?
AdSense
Where does the majority of youtube's revenue go?
to the copyright holders
What does the message when uploading a video ask the user not to do?
violate copyright laws
How much did Viacom want in damages in their lawsuit against youtube?
$1 billion
How much data did youtube have to hand over to Viacom as a result of the lawsuit?
12 terabytes
In 2007 youtube launched an automated system to detect what?
videos that infringe copyright
What was the ultimate view of Content ID's performance after a 2009 test?
surprisingly resilient
Youtube depends on who to flag inappropriate videos?
users
Most videos enable users to do what
leave comments
When did youtube first require the user to have a google account before posting a comment?
November 6, 2013
youtube is completely what in some places?
blocked
How many independent labels did the Merlin Network represent?
20,000
Who made a metaphor about a wall of separation?
Jefferson
What was one of the reason early immigrant groups came to America?
to worship freely
What may no person within Georgia be deprived of the privilege of doing in any manner agreeable to them?
worshipping God
When did the North Carolina Constitution disestablish the Anglican church?
1776
What shows support for the separation of church and state as early as the mid-17th century?
The Flushing Remonstrance
What did an established church, even at the state level, have?
opponents
Who was Roger Williams?
Baptist theologian
Whose conceptions of separation have long been argued over?
Jefferson and James Madison's
What did Jefferson's opponents accuse him of wanting to do to Christianity? 
destruction
When did Jefferson's letter enter American jurisprudence?
1878
What approach was not the only one taken in the 18th century?
Jefferson and Madison's
What did the Duke of York require every community in his lands to support?
some church
What did the original charter of the Province of East Jersey restrict membership in its Assembly to?
Christians
What does the first amendment to the US Constitution state?
"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof"
What is John Baker of LSU's profession?
legal scholars
Where was Representative Roger Sherman from?
Connecticut
When was the 14th Amendment to the US Constitution created?
post-Civil War
What landmark case has impacted all subsequent interpretations of the separation of church and state in regard to state governments?
Everson v. Board of Education
What did Jefferson's concept of 'separation of church and state" became part of what jurisprudence?
Establishment Clause
When was the centrality of the "separation" concept to the Religion Clauses of the Constitution made explicit?
1947
What did the decision ultimately uphold?
state law
When did the Supreme Court address the issue of officially sponsored prayer in public schools?
1962
What was one of the reasons early colonists left England to seek religious freedom in America?
governmentally composed prayers for religious services
When did the case of Epperson v. Arkansas take place?
1968
When was the case of Lemon v. Kurtzman?
1971
How many prongs is the Supreme COurt's test to determine if a government action comports with the Establishment Clause?
three
How many judges were on the panel which held the Pledge of Allegiance in California public schools was unconstitutional?
three
When did the US Court of Appeals rule in the case of ACLU v. Mercer County?
December 20, 2005
What case is in regards to whether prayers at town meetings must allow various faiths?
Town of Greece v. Galloway
What do some organizations disagree with the notion of?
separation of church and state
Critics of modern separation of church and state note there was official establishment of what in several states at the time of ratification?
religion
What clause are both elected officials and appointed ones covered by?
religious test
What do the non-permissible clauses require a belief in?
a Supreme Being
Why have perks like relaxed zoning rules and special parking privileges been allowed for churches?
beneficial arrangements for the society
When do Jeffries and Ryan that the modern concept of separation of church and state dates from?
mid-twentieth century
What position do Jeffries and Ryan argue was the reason for support from a coalition of separationists?
no-aid
What do critics of the concept of separation of church and state argue it's untethered to?
anything in the text of the constitution
Who is the Executive Director of the Baptist Joint Committee?
J. Brent Walker
What did evangelicals want to keep apart?
the spiritual and secular worlds
What does Bellah say the separation of church and state is grounded firmly in?
constitution of the United States
What does having no state-run or state-established allow a variety of religions to do?
flourish
What type of faith is Protestantism?
Christian
What do all Protestantism denominations reject?
the notion of papal supremacy over the Church universal
Where did Lutheranism begin?
Germany
What percentage of Christians are Protestant?
nearly forty percent
From what language does the term evangelical originate?
German
What is the term for teaching by only scripture?
sola scriptura
Which ideas had little criticism for the most part?
necessity and inerrancy
What was Luther's main principle?
sola fide (by faith alone)
When did Protestantism begin to split?
the mid-to-late 16th century
Who was one of the first to try to reform the Catholic Church?
Arnold of Brescia
Who started the Hussite movement?
Jan Hus
When did Martin Luther attach his 95 theses on the door of the church?
31 October 1517
Who condemned the Reformation?
the Pope
What was the nickname for French Protestants?
Huguenots
Who began the Protestant movement in Switzerland?
Huldrych Zwingli
Under whose reign did the Church of England part from Rome?
Henry VIII
The growth of Puritanism happened during what age?
the Elizabethan Age
When was the Scottish Reformation?
1560
When was the German Peasants' War?
1524–25
What movement occurred during the 1730's and 1740's?
The First Great Awakening
When did the Second Great Awakening start?
around 1790
When was the Third Great Awakening?
the late 1850s to the early 20th century
What modern movement began in the 20th century?
the modern Pentecostal movement
Where has there been a rise in evangelical Protestantism?
In the United States and elsewhere in the world
What direction has Europe moved towards?
secularism
Which reformation was seen as not being effective enough?
the Magisterial Reformation
What type of church do Protestants believe in?
the invisible church
What type of movements have tried to unite Protestant denominations?
Various ecumenical
What do national churches bring together?
the ecclesiastical structure with the state
What is another name for denominational families?
branches
The Adventist movement has encouraged examining what in full?
the whole Bible
What does the word Anabaptist describe?
one who baptizes again
What does Anglican mean?
the English Church
Who did the Church of England split from?
the Catholic Church
According to Baptists, who should have baptisms?
professing believers
Where was the earliest Baptist church founded?
Amsterdam
What is the most well-known summary of Calvin's teachings?
the five points of Calvinism
What is one of the largest Protestant branches with 80 million members?
Lutheranism
Who was the inspiration for Methodism?
John Wesley
What is Methodism known for, as far as music goes?
its rich musical tradition
Give two examples of spiritual gifts.
speaking in tongues and divine healing
How many denominations were spawned by Pentecostalism?
hundreds
What denomination do these small groups belong to?
"non-denominational" or "evangelical"
Where do the Plymouth Brethren hail from?
Dublin, Ireland
What is another informal name for Quaker?
Friends
What is a prominent example of a movement which crosses over denominational lines?
Evangelicalism
What period saw a large upswing in Evangelicalism?
the 18th and 19th centuries
What American is considered to have been a seminal influence in the charismatic movement?
Dennis Bennett
Who helped Lutherans understand the charismatic movement in the 1960s?
Larry Christenson
Who heads the Newfrontiers movement?
Terry Virgo
What group was very much hampered in England from making changes?
Puritans
What type of theology did Puritans accept?
Reformed
What religious movement affected education, politics, the economy, and marriage?
the Reformation
What did Reformers increase so that their followers could read the Bible?
education
What is the heart of the Protestant moral code?
Industry, frugality, calling, discipline, and a strong sense of responsibility
Who calculated the Global Value Development Index?
Arno Tausch
What denominations are considered to be wealthier than most other groups?
Episcopalians and Presbyterians
The rise of English Puritanism and German Pietism resulted in a corresponding rise in what?
early experimental science
What was the name of the doctrine that separated church and non-religious affairs?
doctrine of the two kingdoms
What political mixture did Calvin prefer?
aristocracy and democracy
Whose democracies were created by Protestants?
the English and the American democracies
What group initiated the right to religious freedom?
Protestants
What group popularized early Protestant teachings about separation of church and state?
Enlightenment thinkers
When did Prussia stop torture?
1740
Who first introduced social insurance programs?
Chancellor Otto von Bismarck
What did John Milton do for world literature?
enrich
The Roman Catholic Church considers Protestant denominations to be what?
ecclesial communities or specific faith-believing communities
Who were Magisterial reformers?
Martin Luther, John Calvin, and Huldrych Zwingli
Who supported the Magisterial Reformation?
the ruling authorities
What group has been unsuccessful in creating a unified church since 1948?
the World Council of Churches
If done properly, what Protestant practice does the Catholic Church recognize?
baptism
What document was signed in 1999?
the Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification
How many Protestants are there in the world?
more than 900 million
In what European areas is Protestantism still the most practiced religion?
the Nordic countries and the United Kingdom
Where has Protestantism spread quickly since the 1900's?
Africa, Asia, Oceania and Latin America
What is Brazil's capital?
Brasília
How many administrative regions does the Federal District have?
31
When did Kubitschek become President of Brazil?
1956
When did Brazil pass a new Constitution?
1988
What climate type does Brasilia have?
tropical savanna climate (Aw)
What is Brazil's official language?
Portuguese
Who designed the Cathedral of Brasília?
Oscar Niemeyer
What is in the Planalto Palace?
presidential offices
What are 'superquadras' or superblocks?
groups of apartment buildings along with a prescribed number and type of schools, retail stores, and open spaces
Who complained that Brasilia was monotonous?
Simone de Beauvoir
What services are central to Brasilia's economy?
government, communications, banking and finance, food production, entertainment, and legal services
What is Brasilia's GDP?
99.5 billion reais
Where did Brasilia place hotels?
Hotels Sectors North and South
When was 'The World In Grey' published?
2008
What does 'Praça dos Três Poderes' mean?
Square of the Three Powers
Where does Brazil's president live?
Palácio da Alvorada
How many floors does the Planalto have?
four
When did Brasilia's airport add a second runway?
2006
How many boarding bridges does Brasilia's airport have?
28
What is the JK Bridge a nickname for?
The Juscelino Kubitschek bridge
What is the Rodoviária?
bus station
What is the older interstate bus station called?
Rodoferroviária
What type of sports are popular in Brasilia?
unpowered air sports
What type of country is Greece?
developed
What is Greece a significant producer of within the EU?
agricultural
What organization was Greek a founding member?
OECD
What years of economic growth was called Greece's economic miracle?
1950 to 1980
What transformed a large part of the world in the 19th century?
Industrial Revolution
How many years of consecutive growth had Greece had?
fourteen
What was Greece accused of covering up the extent of?
its massive budget deficit
What were the majority of the differences in the revised budget due to the temporary changing of?
accounting practices
Who provided a report for Greece in 2005?
OECD
What error is sometimes made by tying Greece's Eurozone entry with?
controversy regarding usage of derivatives’ deals
What were credits given to European governments disguised as?
swaps
What was a consequence of the doubt that Greece could pay it's debts?
rise of the country's borrowing rates
What did Greece have the highest percentage increase in between 2005 and 2011?
industrial output
What does Greece have the largest of in the world?
merchant navy
How many of the world's tankers do Greek companies own?
22.6%
When counting shipping as quasi-exports and in terms of monetary value, what is Greece's global rank?
4th
Who ran the phones in Greece between 1949 and the 1980s?
state
What does Greece lag behind other EU countries in terms of use?
Internet
How many millions of tourists does Greece attract each year?
more than 16 million
What have a number of tourism-related organizations placed Greek destinations at the top of?
their lists
What was Olympic Airways known as after 2003?
Olympic Airlines
How long is Greek's rail network estimated to run?
2,548 km
What was Greece's largest port as measured by good transported in 2010?
Aghioi Theodoroi
How many TEUs did Piraeus handle in 2010?
513,319
Who dominates energy production in Greece?
Public Power Corporation
How much of Greece's energy consumption came from renewable sources in 2008?
8%
What is Greece set to start exploring the Ionian Sea for?
oil and gas
What was the currency of Greece until 2002?
drachma
What did IMF forecast Greece's unemployment rate to be in 2012?
14.8 percent
Does speaker of the House participate in dbate?
Typically, the Speaker does not participate in debate
Who takes over as Speaker if the minority party gains control of the house?
Minority Leader is usually the party's top choice for Speaker
Are minority leaders usually experienced?
Minority Leaders are typically experienced lawmakers when they win election to this position
Between majority leader and speaker what roles did Boehner have?
Republican House leader and Minority Leader from 2007 to 2011
Who is the leader of the majority leader in House?
Speaker
Does the minority or majority party have more leadership positions in House?
minority party has one less leadership position
What rule gives minority leader right to offer motion to recommit with instructions?
Rule XII, clause 6
Are minority leadership roles specified closely?
are not well-defined
When was the minority leader position created? 
20th-century
In the early days who represented party leadership?
it was more usual that neither major party grouping (Federalists and Democratic-Republicans) had an official leader
What made identifying House leadership difficult?
Internal party disunity
Why was Keifer discredited/empty leader?
arbitrarily handed out "choice jobs to close relatives ... all at handsome salaries.
Prior to 1883 there is evidence that serious caucus fights occured in what years?
1871 and 1873
Is there a consensus about the time that minority leadership officially emerged as a position?
there is disagreement among historical analysts
Which party has always elevated minority floor leaders to speakership?
Democrats
What is the leadership structure when party controls house and presidency?
Speaker normally assumes a lower profile and defers to the President
How is the minority leader able to accomplish addition demands and tasks?
minority leader is provided with extra staff resources—beyond those accorded him or her as a Representative
How many private calendar objector members does minority leader appoint?
three
According to democratic rules of the 106th congress what committee does minority leader chair?
Policy Committee
Who plays an influential role in the formation of party policy?
A party's floor leader
How much concern do minority leaders have for campaigning?
hardly any major aspect of campaigning that does not engage their attention
Does minority leader act solely to advance party objectives?
in consultation with other party colleagues
What is the purpose of Obstruction?
frustrating the majority party's ability to govern or attracting press and media attention to the alleged ineffectiveness
What important aim of minority leader pertaining to elections?
develop an electorally attractive agenda of ideas and proposals
How do minority leaders keep party priorities publicized?
"talking points" for constituent meetings in their districts; they help to organize "town meetings"
With whom does minority leader consult and participate in news conference?
counterparts in the Senate—and with the president if their party controls the White House
How often does minority leader speak with president when party controls white house?
minority leader confers regularly with the President and his aides about issues before Congress
What is the difference in role for Minority leader when majority party holds white house?
assumes a larger role in formulating alternatives to executive branch initiatives and in acting as a national spokesperson for his or her party
What options do minority party have in amendment phase?
offer our program as a substitute
What is a good technique to foster party harmony?
appointment of task forces
Who is the chief vote counter for party?
The Chief Deputy Whip
Where do Armenians mostly live besides Armenia?
Nagorno-Karabakh Republic
How long ago has the term 'Armenia' been used?
around the 6th century BC
What mountain does Armenia surround?
Mount Ararat
What subgroup does Hamp put the Armenian language in?
Pontic Indo-European
When was Armenia established?
in the late 6th century BC
What was the first country to make Christianity its official religion?
The Arsacid Kingdom of Armenia
When did Armenia become a sovereign kingdom?
885 AD
When did the Russo-Persian War begin?
1826
Who says they didn't kill Armenians as genocide, just because they were 'in the way of the war'?
Governments of Republic of Turkey
What was Armenia's status from 1918 to 1920?
independent republic
How long have Armenians lived in the highlands?
over four thousand years
What is the Armenian Quarter?
one of the four quarters of the walled Old City of Jerusalem
What are Parskahay?
Armenians who originate from Iran
When did Armenia's church become independent?
451 AD
What religion is dominant in the countries surrounding Armenia?
Muslim
Which Armenian church recognizes the Pope?
Armenian Catholic Church
Who came up with the Armenian alphabet?
Mesrop Mashtots
When were early Armenian Christian churches built?
between the 4th and 7th century
Who invaded Armenia in the 11th century?
Seljuk
When did Armenia begin winning Olympic medals?
1952
What kind of music does Sayat Nova play?
Armenian folk music
What type of music is Richard Hagopian famous for?
the traditional "kef" style
What job do many Armenian women traditionally do?
Carpet-weaving
What is Hakobyan's career?
Art historian
What is khorovats?
an Armenian-styled barbecue
What are the Jehovah Witnesses?
millenarian restorationist Christian denomination
What are Jehovah witnesses best known for?
their door-to-door preaching
When did Charles Taze Russell form a group?
1870
When did Watch Tower supporters gather as autonomous congregations to study the Bible?
From 1879
When did Russell move the Society's headquarters to Brooklyn?
1909
Who was elected as the Watch Tower Society's president in January of 1917?
Joseph Franklin Rutherford
Where as an international convention held in September of 1922?
Cedar Point, Ohio
When did Rutherford introduce the new name for the Society?
July 26, 1931
From when was it taught that the little flock would not be the only people to survive Armageddon?
1932
Who was appointed as the third president of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society in 1942?
Nathan Knorr
From 1966, what did Witness publications and conventions think would happen in late 1975?
Christ's thousand-year reign
In 1976 whose power in Watch Tower Society was diminished?
president
How are Jehovah Witnesses organized?
hierarchically
What does each congregation have?
a body of appointed unpaid male elders
What is a requirement for being considered a member of Jehovah's Witnesses?
Baptism
What do Jehovah Witnesses believe their religion is a restoration of?
first-century Christianity
What is considered the inspired, inerrant word of God?
The entire Protestant canon
Who do Jehovah Witnesses believe is God's only direct creation?
Jesus
Jehovah Witnesses believe who will go to heaven?
a "little flock"
What do Jehovah Witnesses believe of God's kingdom?
a literal government in heaven
One of Jehovah Witnesses' central teachings is that the world entered into its last days at what year?
1914
When will Jesus' presence end?
when he comes to bring a final judgment
How often did Jehovah Witnesses congregations meet prior to 2009?
three times each week
What are Jehovah Witnesses probably best known for by outsiders?
their efforts to spread their beliefs
What is Jehovah Witnesses' view of divorce?
discouraged
Who administers formal discipline?
congregation elders
Why do Jehovah Witnesses believe the Bible condemns mixing of religions?
can only be one truth from God
Who is king of God's kingdom in heaven?
Christ
What industries do Jehovah Witnesses avoid working in?
associated with the military
What biblical passage informs Jehovah Witnesses' refusal of blood transfusions?
Acts 15:28, 29
What are Jehovah Witnesses allowed to accept at their discretion? 
blood plasma fractions
What term do Jehovah's Witnesses use for members actively involved in preaching?
publishers
Where do the officially published membership statistics come from?
those who submit reports for their personal ministry
What is the profession of James A. Beckford?
Sociologist
Jehovah's Witnesses in the United States ranked highest in people whose education extended no further than what?
high school graduation
What has at times led to immense violence against Jehovah's Witnesses?
Political and religious animosity
Who were Jehovah's Witnesses accused of intentionally provoking in the 1930s and 1940s?
authorities and other religions
What did Jehovah's Witnesses persistent legal challenges result in, in the United States?
reinforced judicial protections for civil liberties
Who establishes the doctrines of the Jehovah's Witnesses?
the Governing Body
What do former Jehovah's Witnesses members Heath and Gary Botting compare the culture of the religion to?
Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-four
What profession did Rodney Stark grow up to become?
Sociologist
What is the New World Translation the most accurate translation of?
the Bibles most widely in use in the English-speaking world
Who do Watch Tower Society publications claim God has used?
Jehovah's Witnesses
What does George D. Chryssides suggest the changing views and dates of the Jehovah's Witnesses can be attributed to changed understandings of?
biblical chronology
What are Jehovah's Witnesses accused of concealing within their organization?
sexual abuse
What has the Jehovah's Witnesses failure to report to authorities been criticized? 
abuse allegations
What was Eisenhower's nickname?
Ike
Along with reducing the federal deficit, what was Eisenhower's main policy priority as president?
keep pressure on the Soviet Union
Along with Israel, what countries' armies invaded Egypt in 1956?
British and French
Why political movement was named for Joseph McCarthy?
McCarthyism
What book did Eisenhower's parents read every day?
Bible
In what year did Eisenhower graduate from high school?
1909
What was Eisenhower's job title during the first year his brother went to college?
night supervisor
What was Doud Eisenhower's nickname?
Icky
What sport did Eisenhower notably enjoy?
golf
What was Eisenhower's favorite hobby other than golfing?
oil painting
What was Eisenhower's favorite film?
Angels in the Outfield
What military installation was Eisenhower assigned to when the United States entered the First World War?
Ft. Leavenworth
How long before Eisenhower was to be transferred to France did World War I end?
week
What was Eisenhower's Camp Meade unit equipped with?
tanks
What role did Eisenhower serve under Fox Conner?
executive officer
Who was the head of the American Battle Monuments Commission during this period?
Pershing
What event made war planning difficult in this period?
Great Depression
What rank was Eisenhower promoted to in 1936?
lieutenant colonel
What unit did Eisenhower serve with upon his return to the United States?
15th Infantry
To what body was Eisenhower assigned after Pearl Harbor was attacked?
General Staff in
As of May 1942, who commanded the Army Air Forces?
Henry H. Arnold
What appointment did Eisenhower receive in November of 1942?
Supreme Commander Allied Expeditionary Force of the North African Theater of Operations
What geographic area was the primary objective of Eisenhower?
Tunisia
What was Rommel's rank?
Generalfeldmarschall
What did the Allies invade after they conquered North Africa?
Sicily
Other than Eisenhower, who was considered for the appointment of Supreme Allied Commander in Europe?
Marshall
Who refused to provide Eisenhower with landing craft?
Ernest J. King
When did the Normandy invasion occur?
June 6, 1944
What unit did Montgomery command?
21st Army Group
What European rank was equivalent to that of General of the Army?
Field Marshal
When did the Battle of the Bulge begin?
December 1944
What was Eisenhower's title after Germany's surrender?
Military Governor of the U.S. Occupation Zone
Who was Chief of Staff of the Army before Eisenhower?
Marshall
When was it suggested to Eisenhower that he might one day become president?
June 1943
What state's delegates were considering supporting Eisenhower in 1948?
New Hampshire
What position did Eisenhower occupy in 1948?
President of Columbia University
While Eisenhower was president of Columbia, what group did he also work with?
Council on Foreign Relations
What position was held by James Forrestal?
Secretary of Defense
Aside from his university work, where did Eisenhower gain useful contacts?
American Assembly
When was Eisenhower's resignation of Columbia turned down?
December 1950
Who was President of the United States prior to Eisenhower?
Truman
In what part of the country, previously neglected by Republican presidential candidates, did Eisenhower campaign?
South
What was the home state of Joseph McCarthy?
Wisconsin
In what century was Eisenhower born?
19th
Who was Eisenhower's budget director?
Joseph M. Dodge
What war did Eisenhower want to end as president?
Korean
How did Eisenhower describe his political views?
progressive conservative
What wing of the GOP was Eisenhower opposed to?
right
Upon election, how many terms did Eisenhower believe he would serve?
one
What event led Eisenhower to want to improve highways in the US?
the U.S. Army's 1919 Transcontinental Motor Convoy
What agreements did the GOP Old Guard want Eisenhower to abandon?
Yalta
What did Eisenhower reduce as he increased nuclear weapons stockpiles?
conventional forces
Why did nuclear arms negotiations with Russia fail prior to 1955?
refusal of the Russians to permit any sort of inspections
What country did Eisenhower believe communists would conquer if they took over Guatemala?
Mexico
Who was the director of the CIA?
Dulles
What make and model aircraft was Air Force Flight 8610?
Lockheed C-121 Constellation
What caused Eisenhower to kickstart the US space program?
Soviet launch of Sputnik
Where did the Chinese begin to increase forces after Eisenhower entered the White House?
Kaesong sanctuary
The boundary line of what year formed the 1953 armistice line?
1950
Along with the British and Israelis, what forces invaded Egypt in 1956?
French
What war was being fought by France in 1953?
First Indochina War
Aside from bombers, what aid did Eisenhower provide to the French?
non-combat personnel
What is SEATO?
Southeast Asia Treaty Organization
What was South Vietnam called in 1955?
Free Vietnam
How many days did the President of South Vietnam visit the US for in 1957?
ten
When was a U-2 downed over the Soviet Union?
May 1, 1960
What did the Eisenhower administration refer to the downed U-2 as?
weather research aircraft
Along with Eisenhower, Macmillan and de Gaulle, what leader attended the Four Powers Paris Summit?
Nikita Khrushchev
Which president initially began to desegregate the US military?
Truman
Who did Eisenhower tell DC officials to integrate?
school children
What state refused to integrate its schools in 1957?
Arkansas
In what year did Joseph McCarthy declare that the federal government was employing communists?
1953
What organization did Eisenhower want to keep from being one of McCarthy's targets?
Atomic Energy Commission
What did McCarthy threaten to do in May of 1955?
issue subpoenas to White House personnel
Who won a Senate majority in 1954?
Democrats
What did Martin think Eisenhower did too much of in his relations with Congress?
worked too much through subordinates
What were Harlan and Stewart's party affiliations?
Republicans
Where did Eisenhower pick up the habit of smoking?
West Point
What caused Eisenhower's stroke of 1957?
left ventricular aneurysm
What August 1965 event caused Eisenhower to drop out of public life?
heart attack
Who did Eisenhower endorse for president in 1960?
Richard Nixon
On what date did Eisenhower deliver his farewell speech?
January 17, 1961
What town did Eisenhower retire to after his presidency?
Gettysburg
How old was Eisenhower when he died?
78
When did Eisenhower's funeral train arrive in Abilene, Kansas?
April 2
In popular memory, what sport was Eisenhower known for playing?
golf
From where did Eisenhower get the idea of a White House Chief of Staff?
United States Army
How many appreciation medals were minted?
9,858
What is the formal name of the Interstate Highway System?
Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of Interstate and Defense Highways
At what Augusta hole was the Eisenhower Pine located?
17th
How many boroughs are in NYC?
five
Who is the Bronx named for?
Jonas Bronck
How poor is part of the Bronx?
one of the five poorest Congressional Districts in the United States
When was Jonas Bronck born?
1600
What is the Bronx's county name?
The County of Bronx
When did farmers build a bridge over the Harlem River?
1759
How many counties did New York originally have?
12
When did New York City annex Kingsbridge?
1873
When was the Bronx's boom period?
1900–29
How many Jews lived in the Bronx in 1937?
592,185
What is redlining?
a reduction in the real-estate listings and property-related financial services (such as mortgage loans or insurance policies) offered in some areas
What crime was common in the Bronx in the 1970s?
arson
What city plan helped redevelop the Bronx?
"Ten-Year Housing Plan"
What award did the Bronx receive in 1997?
All America City
What is Kingsbridge Armory being turned into?
Kingsbridge National Ice Center
What's on the other side of the Hudson from the Bronx?
Alpine, Tenafly and Englewood Cliffs
Where is the Bronx's highest point?
in the northwest corner, west of Van Cortlandt Park and in the Chapel Farm area near the Riverdale Country School
When did NYC buy land for its parks?
1888
What is Screvin's Neck also called?
Castle Hill Point
What parts of the Bronx have more hills?
western
Why has the supposed size of the 'South Bronx' grown?
The name has been used to represent poverty in the Bronx and applied to progressively more northern places
What in the Bronx has been compared to Broadway?
The Hub
How much land was the Gateway Center at Bronx Terminal Market built on?
17 acres
What part of Manhattan are the West Bronx's streets similar to?
northernmost part of upper Manhattan
How much of the Bronx's population is Hispanic?
53.5%
How much of the Bronx speaks Spanish at home?
46.29%
How much of the Bronx is white (including Hispanic) as of 2009?
22.9%
How much of the Bronx's population is black (including Hispanic)?
35.4%
What percent of the Bronx is Hispanic and Latino Americans?
52.0%
How many multiracial people live in the Bronx?
over 41,800
When was the 'one man, one vote' decision?
1964
When did Carrion Jr. retire as Borough President?
March 1, 2009
In the 2008 primary, how much of the Bronx vote did Clinton get?
61.2%
Who did the Bronx support for President in 1928?
Al Smith
Who was the only Republican Mayor candidate to win the Bronx since 1914?
Fiorello La Guardia
How many students attended the Bronx public noncharter schools as of 2000?
nearly 280,000
What percent of the Bronx population has a high school diploma, as of 2000?
62.3%
Which of NYC's prestigious nonreligious private schools are in the Bronx?
Fieldston, Horace Mann, and Riverdale Country School
When did NYC begin splitting up the large Bronx high schools?
1990s
When did a PBS documentary air about the Bronx's music history?
2006
Who were the Herculoids?
Herc, Coke La Rock, and DJ Clark Kent
When did the first Yankee Stadium open?
1923
Where are many of the Bronx's playwrights from?
Latin America and Africa
What types of art does the Bronx Museum of the Arts focus on?
20th century and contemporary art
When was the Lorelei Fountain written about?
1838
When did Herter die?
1917
Who designed the City Island Historical Society and Nautical Museum's building?
C. B. J. Snyder
What does the Inner City Press now focus on?
national issues
What channel in the Bronx does Cablevision run?
News 12 The Bronx
When was 'From This Day Forward' released?
1946
Where was arson a big problem in the Bronx?
the South Bronx
When was 'The Warriors' movie released?
1979
When was 'Fort Apache' released?
1981
When was 'True Love' released?
1989
When did "Awakenings" come out?
1990
When was 'City Boy: The Adventures of Herbie Bookbinder' published?
1948
Who wrote 'Bonfire of the Vanities'?
Tom Wolfe
What can be seen as of essential importance to a practiced of humanism?
human beings
What was humanism once considered the same as?
philanthropy
 At the time of the French Revolution what previous focus of humanism was removed?
supernatural
 In what year did the term humanism gain yet another layer of meaning?
1808
During which period was the philosophy of humanism next updated?
French Enlightenment
What was the main difference between humanism and the religions of the time?
centred on humankind
Which ancient text provides an example of the humanist way of thinking?
Gathas of Zarathustra
Who was known as being a founder of humanism thought in China?
Yellow Emperor
When were humanism beliefs mixed with another philosophy by a Taoist thinker?
6th century BCE
Who was one of the first Greeks to adopt a humanistic outlook?
Thales of Miletus
When did the first wave of Humanism reach Europe?
Middle Ages and the Early Modern period
 What is one religious text that was thought to eventually lead to a peace between all?
the Jewish Kabbalah
How were humanist able to identify the development of humanist thought?
Latin literary texts
When are these texts first able to reach a large amount of people?
1517
 What author had a great impact in Rome?
P. Terentius Afer
Who felt that looking to these ancient documents for new ideas was not the way to mover forward?
A. C. Crombie
Who felt that the further examination and knowledge of studies in the arena of humanism could further art?
Leonardo da Vinci
Who was able to reconcile their religious beliefs with those of humanism?
Early humanists
What abolitionist was greatly affected by the writings of Comte?
Harriet Martineau
What 19th century author associated his works with humanism?
F.C.S. Schiller
Who wotked with Carl Rogers on humanistic phycology?
Abraham Maslow
What groups thoughts did he seek to include?
Western Unitarian Conference
What was the main action of humanism during the Renaissance>
cultural and educational reform
What was it about the utilitatian beliefs that humanism believers did not like?
narrow pedantry
What is contemporary humanism optimistic about?
capacity of people
What was included in religious humanism that was similiar to other religion?
religious rituals
Who was one early naysayer of Humanism?
Ezra Pound
In what year was the book humanism published?
1997
Who quoted the line of Terence most notably?
Seneca
What writing was considered a bridge between two other major writings?
The Age of Reason
The initial state of earth was what?
molten
Powerful volcanism contributed to cause early earth to be in what state?
molten
During what time period was the Archean era?
4,000 to 2,500 million years ago
What are Archean rocks composed of, in general?
metamorphized deep-water sediments
During what time period did the Proterozoic era occur?
2,500 to 541 million years ago
During what period was the Paleozoic era?
541 to 252 million years ago
At what rough time did the Cambrian era start?
541.0 ± 1.0 Ma.
How long ago did the Ordovician period begin?
485.4 ± 1.9 Ma.
What type of climate was normal in the Ordovician period?
stable greenhouse conditions
When was the Silurian period believed to have begun?
443.8 ± 1.5 Ma.
During what time period was the Devonian era?
419 to 359 Ma.
What occurred to the level of the sea when the Devonian period was finished?
A global drop
What geologic events took place when Pangea combined during the Carboniferous?
mountain building
What supercontinent prevailed during the Permian era?
Pangaea
Which ocean name is translated to mean "all the sea?"
Panthalassa
During what years was the Jurassic period?
201.3 ± 0.2 to 145.0 Ma.
The current continents were formerly known as what continent?
Pangaea
During the height of the Cretaceous transgression how much of the earths land mass was under water?
one-third
How many years long was the Cenozoic Era?
66 million years
How many continents did Laurasia break into?
three
During what years did the Eocene period take place?
56 million years ago - 33.9 million years ago
during which period did mountains form in the western part of North America?
Eocene
What permanent structure formed on Antarctica?
ice cap
The formation of which mountain range was the result of of what zone along the Pacific Ocean side of South America?
the Andes
What is the link between North and South America called?
the Isthmus of Panama
How long ago did the last glacial period end?
about 10,000 years ago
What does the state want a police force to do?
enforce the law, protect property, and limit civil disorder
How are police usually paid?
through taxes
Which Chinese kingdoms developed law enforcement?
Chu and Jin
What war ended in 1479?
War of the Castilian Succession
Which two entities in Medieval France had police duties?
The Marshal of France and the Constable of France
In what year did Paris get a police force?
1667
Who was Paris's first head of police?
Gabriel Nicolas de la Reynie
When did the French language adopt the word 'police'?
in the 18th century
Who convinced the West Indies merchants in London to establish police?
Patrick Colquhoun
What was the initial size of the Thames River Police force?
50
How did the Bow Street group pay their employees?
stipendiary system
Which law established Glasgow's police?
Glasgow Police Act
Who was the 'father of modern policing'?
Peel
When was the Metropolitan Police Act passed?
1829
When did Rio get its first police investigator?
1566
When did Canada get its first police?
1729
What were the Old West's local police options?
poorly resourced sheriffs and temporarily organized posses
Which countries' scholars developed the contemporary police concept?
German and French
Which economic theory did Foucault say supported the police?
mercantilist theory
Who wrote 'Preventive Police'?
Edwin Chadwick
What do some police departments make detectives go back to periodically?
patrol duties
When did Nadelmann write about global policing?
1993
When did Deflem write about cross-border policing?
2002
Where did Sheptycki study police cooperation?
the English Channel region
Where has cross-border policing been most under-studied?
outside of Europe
Where has transnational policing become more important?
in United Nations peacekeeping
Who wrote the Global Accountability Report for 2007?
Lloyd, et al.
What should non-lethal weapons properly be called?
"less than lethal" or "less-lethal"
How do modern police often communicate?
radio
When do police often use unmarked cars?
primarily for sting operations or apprehending criminals without alerting them to their presence
Why do some cops use bicycles to patrol?
they allow for more open interaction with the public
Who was O.W. Wilson a student of?
August Vollmer
What does Miranda provide?
safeguards against self-incriminating statements made after an arrest
When was the Terry v. Ohio case?
1968
What is the legal status of UK police officers?
constables
Why do some police acts limit when police can interfere without court orders?
To ensure that the police would not interfere in the regular competencies of the courts of law
What does Punjab mean?
five waters
What plain is Punjab in?
the alluvial plain of the Indus River
How large is Punjab compared to the other three provinces?
second largest
Which province in Pakistan borders the other 3 provinces?
Punjab
How many departments does the Punjab administration have?
48
What was Punjab formerly known as?
Panchanada
Who has invaded Punjab?
Greeks, Kushans, Scythians, Turks, and Afghans
Where did Alexander the Great conquer in 10 days?
Drangiana, Arachosia, Gedrosia and Seistan
What religion did Punjab become?
Muslim
Who was Raghunath Rao?
the general of the Hindu Maratha Empire
When did Sikhism begin?
mid-fifteenth century
When did Ranjit Singh die?
summer of 1839
When did India and Pakistan fight in Punjab?
1965 and 1971
When do monsoons traditionally happen in Punjab?
by May
What is Punjab's major language?
Punjabi
Who elects the Chief Minister?
the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab
How much has Punjab's economy grown since 1972?
quadrupled
What geographic feature does Punjab not have?
coastline
What kind of climate does Punjab have?
tropical wet and dry
What kind of problem caused riots in June 2012?
electricity
What kind of inscriptions decorate Punjab's burial places?
Calligraphic inscriptions from the Quran
What are urs?
fairs held at the shrines of Sufi saints
What is Punjab's biggest festival?
The national horse and cattle show
What famous tomb is in Lahore?
Jahangir's Tomb
Who are some well-known Punjab poets?
Sultan Bahu, Bulleh Shah, Mian Muhammad Baksh, and Waris Shah
What kind of music does Malika Pukhraj perform?
Ghazals and folk songs
Of the huge amount of microorganisms, how many cause disease in otherwise healthy individuals?
relatively few
What is one way of proving that a given disease is infectious?
satisfy Koch's postulates
When are infectious diseases called contagious diseases? 
when they are easily transmitted by contact with an ill person
When does infection begin?
when an organism successfully enters the body, grows and multiplies.
What does wound colonization refer to?
nonreplicating microorganisms within the wound
Why is it difficult to now which chronic wounds are infected?
Because it is normal to have bacterial colonization
Disease can arise when an organism inflicts what on the host?
damage
Why do persistent infections occur?
body is unable to clear the organism after the initial infection
What does diagnosis of an infectious sometimes involve identifying? 
an infectious agent either directly or indirectly
How is diagnosis of infectious disease almost always initiated?
by medical history and physical examination
What type of culture is a principal tool used to diagnose infectious disease?
Microbiological
What are live animals required by?
some microbes
What is microscopy used for?
diagnosis of infectious disease
What do almost all cells readily stain with?
a number of basic dyes
What needs to be isolated from infected tissue to provide a biochemical diagnosis of an infectious disease?
enzymes
What methods are highly sensitive, specifc and rapid tests used to identify microorganisms?
Serological
What are immunoassays?
Complex serological techniques
What does the acronym PCR expand to?
polymerase chain reaction
What technological ability with regards to detection is currently available? 
ability to detect any infectious agent
What is used in the treatment of AIDS?
AZT
What can wearing gowns and face masks help prevent?
infections from being passed from one person to another
Recognizing the different characteristics of various diseases is one way to do what?
prevent or slow down the transmission of infectious diseases
Recognizing the effects of small-world networks allows one to decrease what?
transmission rate of infectious diseases
What is resistance to infection known technically as?
immunity
What can the clearance of pathogens be influenced by in an individual?
genetic variants
What type of drugs can suppress an infection when it attacks the body?
anti-infective
What are the top three killer diseases?
HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria
What medical field does the treatment of infectious diseases fall into?
field of Infectious Disease
What have a number of studies found a correlation between?
pathogen load in an area and human behavior
What profession finds evidence of infection in fossil remains to be interesting?
paleopathologists
What is the practice of killing or trapping any animal?
Hunting
What does evidence suggest hunting may have been a factor in the extinction of?
holocene megafauna
What is undisputed about early humans?
were hunters
What type of lifestyle was prevalent in Siberia until the European Age of Discovery?
Hunter-gathering
What is Louis Binford's profession?
Archaeologist
What was a significant contributor to the human food supply?
hunting
What are kings often depicted as on ancient reliefs?
hunters
Who in medieval Europe obtained the sole rights to hunt in certain areas of a feudal territory?
the upper class
What kind of occupation do Hindu scriptures describe hunting as being?
acceptable
Who has hunting been forbidden to since early Christian times?
Roman Catholic Church clerics
What distinction is undoubtedly permissible?
between lawful and unlawful hunting
What does New Zealand have?
strong hunting culture
What was hunting regarded as in British India?
regal sport
What norms are generally antagonistic to hunting?
Regional social
What type of hunting is most closely associated with the UK?
fox hunting
What does shooting in Britain require little questing for?
game
What law primarily regulates hunting?
state
What is required when hunting big game?
a "tag" for each animal harvested
How is gun usage typically regulated?
game category, area within the state, and time period
What is hunting in the U.S. not associated with?
any particular class or culture
When do hunting regulations date from in the US?
19th century
How much money is distributed to state agencies to support wildlife management programs each year?
$200 million
What is varmint hunting an American phrase for?
selective killing of non-game animals seen as pests
When was internet hunting introduced?
2005
Approximately how many sport hunters applied for hunting licences in recent years?
12,000
What does hunting give resource managers an important tool?
managing populations
What did sport hunters in the 19th century purse game for?
trophy
What Continent did the biological Conservation state trophy hunting is of major importance to the conservation of?
Africa
What do a variety of industries benefit from?
hunting
Hunting has significant financial impact in what country?
the United States
What has excessive hunting contributed heavily to?
the endangerment, extirpation and extinction of many animals
Who signed the Migratory Bird Hunting Stamp Act?
President Franklin D. Roosevelt
How much money has the sale of Federal Duck Stamps generated since 1934?
$670 million
What large species of antelope once made its home in the desert areas of the Middle East?
The Arabian oryx
What type of creature is the American bison?
a large bovid
Why has Botswana been forced to ban trophy hunting altogether?
a precipitous wildlife decline
What country is Kathmandu the capital of?
Nepal
About how long has Kathmandu existed?
2000
What does काष्ठ mean in English?
wood
What is the ancient name of Kathmandu?
Kasthamandap Mahanagar
According to legend, what body of water once existed on the site of Kathmandu?
lake
Who was the founder of the Kirata dynasty?
Yalamber
Who won the war between the Licchavis and the Kiratas?
Licchavis
Kathmandu resulted from the merger of what two settlements?
Dakshin Koligram
Who ruled Nepal after the Licchavi?
Malla
How many cities were present in the Kathmandu Valley in the late Malla period?
four
Who won the Battle of Kathmandu?
Gorkha Kingdom
What river is south of Kathmandu?
Bagmati
How many rivers travel through Kathmandu?
eight
How many districts make up the Kathmandu Valley urban area?
three
What is the Kathmandu Valley's average temperature in winter, in degrees Fahrenheit?
50.2
What sort of temperature is typical on a Kathmandu morning?
cool
What religion proliferated throughout Central Asia in part due to the efforts of Lhasa Newar merchants?
Buddhism
Approximately what portion of Nepal's GDP is produced by the Kathmandu metropolitan area?
one third
Approximately when did the Nepalese tourism industry begin?
1950
What is the most significant industry in Nepal?
tourism
What Kathmandu neighborhood is noted for its abundance of tourists?
Thamel
How many stars is Kathmandu's Grand Hotel?
four
How many sectors make up the Kathmandu metropolitan area?
five
What is Kathmandu's fire department called?
Barun Yantra Karyalaya
What was the population of Kathmandu in 1991?
427,045
What percentage of Kathmandu residents are Chettris?
18.5
What religion does Changunarayan belong to?
Hindu
Where is a Durban Square located that is not preserved?
Kirtipur
What is Durga called in Nepali?
Taleju
When was the Pashupatinath Temple built?
5th century
What people make up the majority of Pashupatinath followers?
Hindus
To what religion is Boudhanath holy?
Buddhist
Who is pictured on the stupa's base?
Dhyani Buddha Amitabha
In what part of Kathmandu is Swayambhu located?
northwestern
Kathmandu valley contains art made of metal, terracotta, wood and what other substance?
stone
What types of deities are Bhavani and Durga?
Mother Goddesses
Along with the National Museum of Nepal, what notable Nepalese museum is present in Kathmandu?
Natural History Museum of Nepal
In what area of Kathmandu is the National Museum?
western
When did Tribhuvan die?
1955
Where in Kathmandu is Narayanhity Palace Museum located?
north-central
What is the Taragaon Museum dedicated to?
modern history of the Kathmandu Valley
Contemporary Kathmandu art combines traditional influences with what type of art?
modern
Where can one find the Srijana Contemporary Art Gallery?
Bhrikutimandap Exhibition grounds
How many volumes are contained in Nepal's National Library?
70,000
Where can the National Dance Theatre be found in Kathmandu?
Kanti Path
What meat is very rarely eaten in Kathmandu?
beef
How many restaurants in the western style were present in Kathmandu circa 1955?
one
What beverage is consumed by more people in Kathmandu, coffee or tea?
tea
To what era do a majority of Kathmandu's festivals date back to?
Malla
In addition to Hindus, who regards the Bagmati River as sacred?
Buddhists
In what century was Bhrikuti said to live?
7th
What type of religion is Kirant Mundhum?
animistic
Where can a temple of the Jain faith be found?
Gyaneshwar
Of what university is the Institute of Medicine a constituent college?
Tribhuwan
Along with cricket, what sport is highly popular among Nepali youth?
Football
As of 2004, how many kilometers of road existed in Nepal?
17,182
What is Nepal's primary airport for international travel?
Tribhuvan International Airport
In what US state did Kathmandu first establish an international relationship?
Oregon
